Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I think I am audible, can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, let's begin, let's start with the session. I hope my screen is visible to all of you. Can you please confirm?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, am I visible… sorry, am I audible?
Sunny Savita: Great, perfect.
Sunny Savita: So let's start with the session, let's start with the class. I hope, you can see my screen.
Sunny Savita: So yesterday, guys, we discussed about the
Sunny Savita: Yesterday, actually, we completed our… we completed this transformer, right? Now, in today's class, from today's class onwards, we are going to be discuss a different thing, so I'll let you know what all things we are going to be discuss.
Sunny Savita: And, each and everything, I'll let you know, okay? The agenda and all, everything.
Sunny Savita: So, just give me a second, I think I just shared my single screen. Let me share the complete screen.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Guys, can you see my entire screen? Yes or no? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Great, perfect. So let's begin, let's start.
Sunny Savita: So why we are every day starting at Svestina?
Sunny Savita: Ari Salendarji, what is Aishu, huh?
Sunny Savita: You are very, very productive, hmm? You are not even wasting your, like, 5 minutes of the day, hmm?
Sunny Savita: Ray, I'm just giving us, like, simple buffer, right? 5-10 minute buffer, so that everyone can join.
Sunny Savita: In everything, people are having problems, having issues, huh?
Sunny Savita: Why you are starting late? Why you are not starting late?
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, let's begin, let's start, and
Sunny Savita: Let's, begin with that class.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we are going to do, guys, so first, see, if you will go and check with the previous class, so you will find out all the recordings and all, with respect to this transformer, okay? So, my one and only suggestion to all of you, if you, if you are not able to understand the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Maybe if you're feeling, difficulty in, if you're connecting the dots, right? The different, different dots of the different, different concept related to this transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then, guys, please watch out this entire session, and along with this entire session, guys, you can, create the notes as well, okay? If you're going to be right, by yourself over the, copyright, or, if you are going to be write it by yourself, okay? So then it will give you the good understanding.
Sunny Savita: So whatever I have written over the Blackboard, the same thing you can replicate inside your notes.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And then keep it… and then keep these notes with you whenever you are going in any interview. You can revise those concepts before the interview itself. It is a one-time job, right? This thing is not going to be changed, it would be same, so this is a one-time job. You can create your own notes.
Sunny Savita: just after seeing this tutorial, or after following my notes, right? This is the one thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, the second thing, you will find out all the notes and all over here.
Sunny Savita: I updated all the notes inside the…
Sunny Savita: Inside this repository, the repository name is the FullStack Genie AI Bootcamp, okay? So this is another thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, after that, see, we are… so here, guys, this is the entire code of the transformer, the complete code of the transformer, okay? So, in whatever way, we have, in whatever way, basically, we have learned the transformer, okay? In the same way, this code have been designed, right? So, guys, I'm not going to teach you this code and all, because, it is not required. So, what I'm doing, I'm giving you this code as an assigned
Sunny Savita: So you can take this code as an assignment, and you can explore it by yourself, you can execute it, you can run it, and you can train the model. If you have any sort of a doubt, we can discuss that, right? Because, because, guys,
Sunny Savita: Because guys, if I… if we are going to be discuss this code and all, this will not add any value inside our generative AI learning, right? Because at the end, we have to be focused on the rack, fine-tuning, agentic concept, MCP concept, and cloud-related concept, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, there, guys, this code is not going to be helpless. So, what you can do, guys, I already prepared a code. See, I'm not giving you the task to write a code from scratch. I prepared this code. What you can do, guys, you can,
Sunny Savita: Simply take this code, you can execute it by yourself, you can take it as a challenge, okay? You can take this code as an assignment, okay? And you can execute it by yourself, and you can, basically understand.
Sunny Savita: It is not very difficult. If your basics is clear of the Python, right? If your basics are clear related to the Python, and if you know a little bit of PyTorch, right, easily you can understand this entire code. Okay, now, here what I can do, I can give you the quick walkthrough. So…
Sunny Savita: See, this is, this is some library which I'm going to be import. Here we are going to be, like, downloading some, more library, right? Some more packages. After that, guys, here is the data process. See, we are going to be loaded data, okay? Then, we are going to be tokenize our data.
Sunny Savita: After that, guys, here you can see the complete preprocessing and all with respect to the data.
Sunny Savita: Now, after the pre-processing, guys, here you will see, so, we have a positional encoding layer, okay? Now, after that, guys, you can see multi-attention layer. Then, you can see, point-wise, feed-forward, feed-forward neural network, okay? Then, this is the complete encoder, layer.
Sunny Savita: Then we have a decoder layer, okay, and then this is a complete transform… transformer training.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then this is the hyperparameter, which I was talking about, right? So, dimension of the model, dimension of the, dimension of the input, okay, number of heads, number of layer. Okay, now here you can see, so we have the optimizer and all, the complete training.
Sunny Savita: And then, once you will execute it, you will be able to train, you will be able to train your transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Right? You can train your transformer model, okay?
Sunny Savita: So this is the entire code, guys. You can go through with it, you can take this code as a challenge, and you can execute it by yourself, and basically you can understand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, will you do it or not? Just give me a quick confirmation so that I can proceed. Even in the… in my previous batch also, I haven't explained that, I've given as an assignment only.
Sunny Savita: And, if you wanted to follow, you can follow my… one of the recordings, which is available in the previous batch dashboard only. So, if you will go with your core section, okay? So, inside the core section, guys.
Sunny Savita: You will find out one more course.
Sunny Savita: Let me show you that. So, are you able to see this course, in your course section? Advanced Generative AI… sorry, Advanced NLP with a Generative AI, this one.
Sunny Savita: So if you're able to see this one now, so what you can do, you can go through with this particular course. Now, here, you will find out my… one of the recordings with respect to this transformer explanation, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, just, check out over here. The same recording, basically, I will keep it on your dashboard also, so that you can, you can, follow that, okay? I recorded for 15 minutes, actually. Let me show you where it is.
Sunny Savita: 4th of January, then… extra decoder.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I think this is the recording. Particular basics… yeah, just a second, guys, let me check this other session.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, guys, so here is the recording, okay? You can follow this session number, you can follow 25th January, day 19 session. What I will do, I will take this recording, I have this recording, and I will upload this recording on your dashboard also, so that you can follow it, and you can, understand, if you wanted to understand the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Otherwise, you can take it as a challenge, you can take it as an assignment, and then you can complete it. So tell me, guys, will you do it or not?
Sunny Savita: Yes, Raj, I'll do that, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm giving you this entire code as of now, so that, at least you can download it inside your system, and you can, basically run it, okay? Later on, after the session, guys, you can do it.
Sunny Savita: So, viewer access, copy the link. Once you got it, please let me know.
Sunny Savita: Once you got this entire code.
Sunny Savita: It is a transformer from scratch, okay? So let me rename the file over here.
Sunny Savita: The file name is going to be Transformer from Scratch.
Sunny Savita: Should I upload it over the GitHub?
Sunny Savita: Let me know, I will upload it over the GitHub also, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, wait, I'm uploading over the GitHub also, wait.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I… I'm uploading over here, over the GitHub itself. Just give me a moment, wait.
Sunny Savita: No, to run this code as assignment, okay? To execute it, understand it.
Sunny Savita: And if you want one level of explanation, then I will give you that recording. That recording, I will upload over the dashboard itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: Because in every batch, I provide this code as a challenge, I explain the architecture, then I provide this code, so that simultaneously you can match the architecture and the code itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can train it locally, but I won't suggest you. Run it over the collab itself, because there you will get the free GPU.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, once you got the code, just give me a quick confirmation. I've given you over the GitHub.
Sunny Savita: Once you got it, just let me know, give me the quick thumbs up, so that we can proceed, okay?
Sunny Savita: Here is a code.
Sunny Savita: Everything is mentioned inside this, file itself.
Sunny Savita: So, torch you will get by default inside the collab. You no need to install it, okay? If you're getting torch-related issue, then you can simply write pip install torch, and you will get the torch inside your server.
Sunny Savita: But I would suggest you run it, I would suggest you run it inside the collab, so that you won't face any difficulty, any issues, okay?
Sunny Savita: Here is this data. You can take any sort of a data. I took this particular data, multi-30K data set. If you will search it over the, if you will search it over the Google… sorry, over the Google na, you will get it from the GitHub itself, okay? So, sorry, from the Hugging Face Hub only.
Sunny Savita: Right, so this data and all, everything I will show you in the upcoming, in the going forward session. So don't worry, now we are going to be entered into the fine-tuning. I will explore the different, different data set. So once you will search, you know, this multi-30K data set, okay, it is a translation data.
Sunny Savita: So, just search it, and you will get the link. So, this dataset, actually, it is available over the GitHub, as well as it is available over the Hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: So, just check out over here, you will get it, okay? So, take this entire thing as an assignment, and believe me, guys, it is simple. If you've understood about the theory, you can easily execute this entire goal.
Sunny Savita: Can you give the requirement for this? There is no such requirement. If you are going to be executed over the collab, there is no such requirement, okay? Everything I've mentioned inside the collab notebook itself.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, git push is done. I'm sharing the link of that.
Sunny Savita: Can we start now? Just give me a quick,
Sunny Savita: thumbs up, so that we can start, okay? So, are you clear with the assignment? Please let me know, the chair, if you're clear with the assignment.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: Perfect, guys. So, now, guys, see, we understood about a transformer.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, after the transformer, we have to understand a couple of more things with respect to the different, different LLM, different, different SLM, and different, different multi-model LLM. Okay, so what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be open my blackboard that I already prepared and notes.
Sunny Savita: And we'll follow those specific nodes, and we'll understand, basically with, we'll understand the different, different LLM, SLM, and the multi-model languages model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now over here, guys, see, as I told you, we're talking about the large language model, so the base of the large language model is going to be transformer only.
Sunny Savita: Whatever model you are going to be used, whatever model you are going to be picked, right? So the base of those large language models is going to be what? The large language model is going to be what? Tell me, the transformer only. So, if you understood the transformer, okay, you can understand the architecture of any LLM model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, we are not going to be understanding architecture of every LLM model, because, as we understood the fundamental architecture, which is a transformer only.
Sunny Savita: So, there is no meaning to spend, time on each and every architecture, and believe me, guys, that, knowledge, we are not going to be used anywhere, okay? Because everywhere, the practical knowledge is required.
Sunny Savita: But guys, inside this particular session, I will give you the clear-cut overview
Sunny Savita: That what all kind of models we have, okay? What is an encoder-based model, what is a decoder-based model, what is an encoder and decoder-based model, then a modern LLM family, we'll discuss about that. We'll discuss about the training pipeline of the model, okay? Then we'll discuss about the SLM concept, what all SLM models we have, what all multi-model, we have, okay?
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, after discussing that, we'll go through the… we'll go through a couple of leaderboards, okay? And then, guys, we'll come to the API access, right? What all APIs we have, with that, actually, we can access those specific models, right? So, in this particular manner, we are going to be understand each and everything in the same flow which I written over here, over the Blackboard itself.
Sunny Savita: So that your, complete overview from transfer to… from transformer to LLM is going to be clear, okay? I will discuss, if you are going to be learning the multimodel LLM, that model concept you need to be… understand, okay? I will just give you the sort of overview, right?
Sunny Savita: Again, I'm saying, guys, we have to be focused on the practical side more, like RAC, agents, okay?
Sunny Savita: So there is no meaning to go through with each and every architecture of the different, different LLM. If we are… if you are doing that, then I think for an entire 6 months, we are just going to be explore the architecture of the LLM only, because we have seen the transformer architecture, how heavy it is, right? And that is being used as a fundamental architecture. Self-attention is a concept which is being used in every sort of a LLM, okay?
Sunny Savita: With some modification and all, now you have that capability, you can understand that.
Sunny Savita: So, self-attention, cross-attention, mask self-attention, okay? These are the important concepts. So, guys, again, I would suggest you, please master this concept, mask attention, cross-attention, it is very much important, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, see, what we'll do, we'll understand what all API we have to access the model. Now, once we got this understanding, we'll directly move to the fine-tuning, okay? So, with this particular pipeline, guys, you will get a clear-cut understanding, you will get a clear-cut overview that the journey is going to be start from the transformer, and how it is going to be, and to the multi-model LLM, okay? And then what all leaderboards we have, and what all API access
Sunny Savita: all different, different APIs we have, you will understand about each and every part of it. Each and every, like, concept related to that, okay? So, tell me, guys, the agenda and the idea is clear. Just let me know in the chat so that we can proceed.
Sunny Savita: If it is clear, just let me know.
Sunny Savita: So that, guys, I can proceed with the session.
Sunny Savita: Clear?
Sunny Savita: So, can you explain how I get, like, how the reasoning decision happened, the LLM architecture? That is based on the data. We'll discuss the data, we'll discuss the training pipeline, okay? So, you will get to know that.
Sunny Savita: Got it, you guys?
Sunny Savita: Okay, wait, guys.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys. So, I hope you understood about the transformer, okay, and you have clear-cut understanding of that.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if we're talking about a transformer, so how many, how many, part we have of the transformer?
Sunny Savita: The first part of the transformer is called the encoder, right?
Sunny Savita: And the second part, or the second component of the transformer is called.
Sunny Savita: decoder, okay?
Sunny Savita: And guys, couple of models, basically, it is using both encoder and the decoder, right? Now, guys, what we will do, we'll, start exploring the hugging phase, okay? Hugging phase, initially, guys, hugging phase is going to be… play a major role in our learning.
Sunny Savita: Because over there, you will find out so many data sets, you will find out, so many different, different models over the Hugging Face Hub itself.
Sunny Savita: So, I would suggest you now start exploring the hugging phase. Don't worry, I will take one session before coming to the fine-tuning concept, right? And, before coming to the fine-tuning concept, I will take one session with respect to the hugging phase, where each and every doubt will be clarified related to that, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, what you can do, guys, meanwhile, you can open the Hugging Face, okay, just right over the, Google, Hugging Face Hub.
Sunny Savita: So, open your browser, write a Hugging Face Hub, okay? So, once you will do that, what you will get, you will get the…
Sunny Savita: you will get this particular interface. Now, guys, once you will open it, once you will, open this interface, you will get the different, different models here, you will get the different, different data set.
Sunny Savita: What is a space? We'll discuss that, okay? Buckets are there, docks is there, right? This is the document of the Hugging Face. Now, Hugging Face is providing us so many things, right? So many different, different things. So, here you can see all the different, different documents.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, here we are going to be understand couple of things. We are going to be understand couple of libraries from here.
Sunny Savita: like Accelerator, bits and Bytes, Optimum, TRL, okay, we are going to be used PEF library, we are going to be use the SafeTensor, okay? Then, Sentence Transformer is one of the library, then you can see the diffuser model is there, dataset library.
Sunny Savita: Even in our transformer code also, we are going to be using the, dataset library, okay? So, you can check out over here,
Sunny Savita: you can check out over here. We are going to be import the data set, we are going to be imported from the Torch, okay? So, Torch is also referring the Hugging Face Hub only. Okay, we can directly import it from the Hugging Face Hub also. So, in the upcoming session, I will discuss that. So, guys, this Hugging Face is going to be play an important role in our initial learning related to the LLM and all.
Sunny Savita: And, if I have to… if I have to, like, load any dataset, if I have to download any model, okay, for the fine-tuning purpose.
Sunny Savita: Or if I have to be access any model, okay, from this model hub.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, I'm using this Hugging Face, Hugging Face, or Hugging Face API, inferencing API, okay? So, I will discuss that, what is a Hugging Face, Hugging Face, you know, Hugging Face Inferencing API. So, over here, I'm just giving you a… over here, I'm just giving you, one short overview related to this Hugging Face, okay? Again, we'll come to this particular part.
Sunny Savita: Now, here you can see, guys, we're talking about a transformer, okay, so this is the main architecture.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: transformer, okay? And it is having two main components. One is called the encoder, and one is called the decoder. So, when this architecture was invented in 2017,
Sunny Savita: Okay, between this year.
Sunny Savita: After that, guys.
Sunny Savita: Couple of more research came into the picture, okay? Couple of more models came into the picture.
Sunny Savita: Now, this model, right, this model, after the transformer research paper, this model actually, right, came into the picture, and this model, actually, it is called the early stage
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: early stage, early stage.
Sunny Savita: Large language model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, early stage large language model. So, we have modern LLM also, we have different, different modern LLM, like DeepSea, Quan, okay, and the different other modern LLM.
Sunny Savita: We'll discuss about that, we'll come to that, okay? But whenever we're talking about the transformer, guys, it was invented in 2017, and after that, guys, a couple of more models came into the existence, and which got very, very popular, okay? And those models is called the early-stage LLM model.
Sunny Savita: Now, one of the name… one of the name, is the board, right? Have you heard about the board, guys?
Sunny Savita: Have you heard about the BERT? So, BERT, actually, it is one of the models.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The second is called the GPT. GPT model, right? And then we have different other model, the third is called the BART model, B-A-R-T, right? BART model, then…
Sunny Savita: Other one is called the T5 model.
Sunny Savita: So, this model, actually, it was purely based on the… this model, basically, it was purely based on the transformer architecture, okay? And this was the early stage LLM.
Sunny Savita: This was the early-stage LLM. So they have used this transformer architecture as a base architecture, and they have, they took the training process from the ULM FIT research paper.
Sunny Savita: ULM Fit research paper. So, guys, if you remember, I discussed one research paper. I given you the, even I shared this research paper with all of you in my previous session. The research paper name was a ULM Fit. Can anyone tell me the full form of this ULM Fit?
Sunny Savita: What is the full form of the ULM fit? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: What is the full form of the ULM fit, guys?
Sunny Savita: the full form of the ULM Fit is a universal language modeling with the fine-tuning, okay? So this research paper, again, it was invented, it was published in 2017.
Sunny Savita: So, here what they were doing, so the training process was a little different over there. So, at the first place, they were performing the pre-training of the model.
Sunny Savita: pre-training of the model. This pre-training, actually, it is also called the self-supervised learning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This pre-training, it is also called the self-supervised learning.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, the second is called the fine-tuning, or it is also called the supervised fine-tuning, which is also called the SFT, right? Nowadays, it is called the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Instruction, fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, have you heard about the instruction fine-tuning? Anyone knows about the instruction fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: Tell me. So, we'll discuss about the instruction fine-tuning, we'll discuss that inside the fine-tuning chapter. So, in 2017, guys, this ULM Fit research paper was published.
Sunny Savita: And inside this particular research paper, they have, introduced two-stage training. The first is called the pre-training, and the second is called the supervised fine-tuning, okay? To train a model over the specific task.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the bird guys, so it was using some technique, okay, one technique for the pre-training. The technique is called the MLM.
Sunny Savita: mask language modeling. On the other hand, this GPT, basically, it is using a different technique for the pre-training that is called the next token prediction, okay? Or autoregressive training. Next token prediction, okay? Or autoregressive training.
Sunny Savita: Autoregressive.
Sunny Savita: training. There, actually, it is going to be predict the next token inside the data.
Sunny Savita: So, Word was using this MLM for what? For the pre-training, and this GPT was using the next token prediction for what? For the pre-training. Now, what is the meaning of the pre-training? Why we are doing that? We'll understand that part, okay? Again, this topic will come inside the fine-tuning chapter, okay? We'll discuss that thing inside the fine-tuning also.
Sunny Savita: Then guys, what happened? We have an early stage model, early-stage model training pipeline. I'll show you that, what all the steps we were having, and why even we were doing that. Then, modern LLM family. So, we have a different, different modern LLM family, like GPT, Gemini, DeepSea, Quan, okay?
Sunny Savita: And we'll see, like, what all models we have. Then, model LLM Training Pipeline, how this modern LLM training pipeline was different from this early-stage LLM pipeline. We'll talk about it, we'll discuss about that. Okay, we'll come to the SLM concept. So, SLM stands for Small Language Model, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, what is the meaning of this small language model? How many parameters should be there, if I'm seeing any model as a small language model? And then, guys, I will come to the multi-model concept. Multimodal concept means, modern LLM, actually, it is capable to handle a different, different type of data, whether it's an image.
Sunny Savita: or audio, video, a different kind of data could be handled by this modern LLM, okay? Or this multi-model LLM. So we'll discuss that, what all different multi-model LLM we have, and we'll discuss the different, different multi-model LLM family.
Sunny Savita: Leaderboard-wise, I can show you the couple of leaderboards, so that you can look into that on a daily basis, you can understand which model is the best one, which model is a good one, okay?
Sunny Savita: And finally, we'll come to the API access. So, guys, here I was talking about the early stage LLM. So, let's see some example, let's see some, use cases, right? What was the use cases? And, let's, let me show you the research paper of those LLM as well.
Sunny Savita: So, over the next slide, guys, I capped the complete detail related to
Sunny Savita: I kept the complete detail related to the different, different model. So I hope, guys, this is visible to all of you, and tell me, guys, if the agenda and all, everything is clear. Are you able to get this entire thing, whatever I'm saying? Are you with me or not? Yes?
Sunny Savita: So, we'll be going slowly, so that you can understand everything, and your complete hierarchy is going to be built over here, from transformer to the multimodel LLM, okay? If you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session. I will clarify over there.
Sunny Savita: What is a parameter? Number of parameter. Number of parameter means weights and biases, which is being used inside the model, okay? In transformer model, attention weights, feed-forward neural network weights, those only called the parameter, right?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Now, guys, let's do one thing. See?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about a transformer, so what you need to master inside the transformer, I already told you what you need to master inside the transformer. So, we're talking about a transformer, guys, so self-attention, actually, it is a heart of the transformer, okay? So, even I return, the heart of the transformer is what? Self-attention.
Sunny Savita: So, where the model understands each token in sentence. Now, whenever you are going in an interview, guys, so most of the time, people are asking about this particular concept. They will ask you to explain about the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: So you can understand about the self-attention, and you can understand about the… you can even explore the must self-attention. Already, I've shown you the concept, and the cross-attention as well. So, the different, different variant of the self-attention is very, very important, okay? So this is one of the important part, guys, which you need to understand, which you need to revise. I already explained that.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, we're talking about the encoder-only model, so these are some of the examples.
Sunny Savita: Bot was the example, and the different, different variants of the board, okay? Different, different variants of the board, like robot, okay? Roberta, this one, then distilled board, okay? Distilization of the board, then T-bot, okay? So these are the variants of the board.
Sunny Savita: But basically, it was the very famous and the popular architecture, if we're talking about the encoder side, okay? So we can check out the research paper also. I can show you the research paper, and even I will share the research paper and all everything inside the GitHub, okay? I'll keep all the research paper at the single place, and I will share with all of you.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, what I'm doing, I'm writing board.
Sunny Savita: research paper. So, guys, once I will write this bot research paper, I will get it over the archive.org, and once I'll open it, guys, see, this is the research paper, original research paper of the board. So, in which year it was invented, guys?
Sunny Savita: This research paper, this research paper was published in the 2019, okay? Now, over here, if you will go through with this research paper, right, I already shown you the strategy how to summarize any research paper. Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Did I explain you how to do that? You can give this to the chat GPT, and you can ask to summarize this research paper.
Sunny Savita: And it will give you the, the conclusion of that, okay? So that no need to be ex… no need to be go through this entire research paper, and, to read the diff… Difficult, terminology from there.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, if you will check out with this particular research paper, you will get some architecture over here.
Sunny Savita: Actually, this, bot, it was depend on the encoder side of the transformer, okay? So, once you will go through with it, somewhere they have even mentioned. If they haven't mentioned, guys, I can show you that. This is the, not this one.
Sunny Savita: Let me open the transformer as such paper also. So, attention…
Sunny Savita: All you need, PDF. So, this is the Transformer research paper. Let me open it, guys.
Sunny Savita: And this was the architecture of the transformer, okay? Multiple times we have seen in our previous session. So this, basically, this is called the encoder. I think we know, and we got the mastery in the encoder now.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I believe you know how this encoder is processing the data. So, if we're talking about the BERT guy, so BERT, actually, it was using this encoder only, this one.
Sunny Savita: This encoder only.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Bird was using this encoder only, right? Now, over here, guys, see?
Sunny Savita: If you will go and check with this BERT research paper.
Sunny Savita: This is the BERT research paper, okay? Now, inside this BERT research paper, they have mentioned a couple of more things.
Sunny Savita: So, they have mentioned what? They have mentioned about the unsupervised feature-based approach, then, fine-tuning approaches, okay?
Sunny Savita: And then, you will get this particular architecture. Now, over here, you will get this NSP, next token prediction, mask language and all, right? So, using the mask language modeling, they were training the model. They were performing the supervised, they were performing the self-supervised learning, which is also called unsupervised pre-training, okay? Now, over here, guys, just go and check with this research paper.
Sunny Savita: If you are able to understand the transformer architecture, you can easily understand, you can easily understand this BERT research paper also, right? So, mask language modeling, actually, it is a main, key engine of this BERT to train the model, and after that, guys, what they have done, they have performed the fine-tuning of that same model.
Sunny Savita: And, now we can download that model from the Hugging Face Hub. It is an open source model, and we can utilize that, okay? But guys, to be honest, in my 3-4 year of generative AI experience, I never used this board directly.
Sunny Savita: I just use this, word, right, the different, different, variant of the word, right, which is there inside the sentence transformer repository. I mainly use it for the embedding purpose only, okay? I mainly use it for the embedding purpose only, not for the text classification.
Sunny Savita: Not for the, basically, even the summarization or for any other task. Because nowadays, we have a powerful model, where we can easily provide the prompt, and it can perform accordingly. So we no need to use this word, okay? But it is one of the reference, actually. It is one of the legacy models, right, which was introduced in 2019, and at that time, it was performing well.
Sunny Savita: Right? So whoever was working in 2019 and 2020 era with the NLP and all, so maybe once in a while, they have used it for the different tasks in a production.
Sunny Savita: Right? But most of the time, guys, the different variant of the word is being used for the embedding purpose, right? And that part we'll again see inside our rack chapter, okay? Again, I will come to the sentence transformer repository, and we'll see the different, different, model of the embedding over there, right? So.
Sunny Savita: this BERT, actually, it is one of the models. Now, tell me, guys, this BERT, it was based on the encoder side, this one.
Sunny Savita: So, over here, what I mentioned inside the notes, let me open that. So, see, robolta, okay, distal board, deep board, this is nothing, this is just the variants of the boards. So, I can show you the research paper, this roboter. If I'm going to be search this row.
Sunny Savita: Roberta, okay, research paper. So, you will get that. See, here is the, research paper of the Roberta. Now, what is the full form of it?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: What's the full form of this Roberta?
Sunny Savita: A robustly optimized BERT for the pre-training approach.
Sunny Savita: robot… robustly optimized board for the pre-tending approach, right? Now, in the same way, if you are going to be searched this distilled bird.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: distilled board.
Sunny Savita: paper, research paper. You will get a research paper of each and every concept, sorry, each and every model, whatever, like, I have shown you. So this is the… this is… this is the distilled board. So this, actually, it is based on the distillation process.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So it is a distal version of the board. It is a smaller and the faster and the cheaper and the lighter version of the board, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, apart from that, you can see one more version, so even I mentioned that also. So, over here, dbolta, okay? So, let me search the DBERTA also. If I'm going to be searched DBERTA, okay, DBERTA paper.
Sunny Savita: Now, what you will get, guys? So, you will get, the research paper of the DBERTA, okay? See, this one. So, decoding enhanced bird with the,
Sunny Savita: entanglement attention, right? Sorry, this, entanglement attention, right? So, here, guys, you can see, they have, they did, actually, some modifications, some enhancement, okay, inside the board, inside the, inside the architecture of the board.
Sunny Savita: And they came up with a different, different variants of that, okay? So, whatever name I have written over here, over the Blackboard itself, it is all the variants of the BERT only. And yes, it was performing well in 2019 and 2020, okay, at that time. But nowadays, we have a very popular model, so we no need to go through with it, and even, we no need to use this model.
Sunny Savita: But yeah, this is the legacy. Once in a while, this model was being used.
Sunny Savita: So this thing is clear, guys, what all encoder model… what all encoder-based model we have.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, is it clear? At least you got the name, some name.
Sunny Savita: So, if someone is going to be asking you that what all encoder model we, we have, right, currently, so you can say, Bert, robot, Distilbert, debut, and again, guys, it was a legacy. Now, over here, you can see, what is a use case, what was the use case of this particular model? So, I mentioned over here, if we're talking about the use cases of this model.
Sunny Savita: The main use case of this model was a text classification.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what is the text classification, guys? We are going to be classified as text.
Sunny Savita: Whether it is a positive, whether it's a negative, right, whether it's a neutral. So, sentiment analysis, actually, it is a kind of text classification. Name entity recognition, it is a kind of text classification, right? POS means what? POS means what? What it is called, guys. I've written over here one example.
Sunny Savita: Here you can see, right? So, POS tagging, punctuation tagging, right? So, here, what we are doing, we are going to be tag.
Sunny Savita: Right? Part of speech tagging, right? So, here I written this example, related to the different, different, concept of the text, related to the different, different concept of the text classification. So, we're talking about the, we're talking about the sentiment analysis. Over here, you can see this one.
Sunny Savita: This, this one. This is the example of the text classification. So we are passing any sort of a sentence, and we are going to be… classify that in which category it comes, right? So that is called a text classification, sentiment analysis.
Sunny Savita: Then here you can see the second example. Virat Kohli lives in India. So in our output, what you will get, Virat Kohli is a person, India is a location. So this is called NER, Name Entity Recognition, okay? Then you can see the third example over here. Ram eats mango, right? So what we are doing? So, we are tagging the part of a speech. So Ram is a noun, eats is a verb, mango is a noun, right?
Sunny Savita: So…
Sunny Savita: what we are doing over here, we are going to be classifying the text, whatever text we are providing, so we are classifying the text. So, this encoder-based model, this BERT model, actually, it was… it was intentionally created for solving this task.
Sunny Savita: It was intentionally created for solving this particular task, and this particular model was created for the embedding generation.
Sunny Savita: We already know, right, SOTA embedding. Tell me, guys, do we know about the SOTA embedding? Yes or no? So, the embedding also was being created, the embedding also was being created using this particular model. Now, guys, if I'm going to be asking you, let's say we have an encoder, let me write the encoder over here. This is the encoder.
Sunny Savita: What was the output of the encoder? Let's say we are going to be passed any sort of a task, any sort of a text inside the encoder, inside this particular encoder. Okay, this is the encoder, guys.
Sunny Savita: So what was the output of this encoder? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: So, we were getting the vector, okay?
Sunny Savita: We were getting the… contextual vector. Let me mention over here.
Sunny Savita: We were getting the contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: Like this one.
Sunny Savita: So this is only… this is nothing, this is just the embedding representation, contextual embedding representation.
Sunny Savita: Contextual embedding representation, okay?
Sunny Savita: Contextual embedding. So this is nothing, this is the embedding representation of this particular text. So whatever text we are passing over here, whatever text we are passing over here, okay?
Sunny Savita: whatever text we are passing over here, so we are just getting a vector representation of that. This is nothing, this is called the embedding.
Sunny Savita: So the primary focus of this encoder-based model, and the primary focus of the board-based model, to get this embedding, and use this embedding in a different, different application of the NLP, or here, what they were doing, they were using one output HAD, okay? They were using one output HAD after this encoder.
Sunny Savita: output had, and that particular output had, basically, it was, it was, it was being used for the text classification, right? So this bird model, it was very, very popular for the text classification process. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Is this thing clear or not to all of you? Now, over here, if you will read it out, if you will read it out over here, guys, right? So, what you will get, see?
Sunny Savita: You will get, encoder-only models are the best for the deeply understanding text, but they are not naturally designed to generate the text.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So they were understanding the text, they were encoding the text, we were using the text as an embedding, okay? We were using that model for the text classification and all, but it was not good for the generation purpose. It was not able to generate the text like the decoder, like the GPT, basically.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is this slide too clear… is this slide clear to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So, you'll decide which encoder model for which use cases.
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, that's what I'm saying. Now, this encoder model, basically, it was being used for the text classification mainly. If you will check out, if you will check out the BERT research paper, so there also, they have fine-tuned that model, okay, they have fine-tuned that model for what?
Sunny Savita: They have fine-tuned that model for the text classification only, okay? You can download that BERT model, you can download that BERT model inside your system, if you are going to be right like this. If BERT
Sunny Savita: Hugging face, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, once you will write this bird hugging Face, you will get the model over the hugging Face itself.
Sunny Savita: And you can get it directly from here, see? Bird base uncase. So this is a model, guys, which we can directly take, which we can directly take inside our system.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and which we can utilize. Even we can download this model in our local as well.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So this is the pre-trained model of the bot. I will come… I will come to that concept, what is a pre-training, and what is a supervised fine-tuning. I will explain you in a detail, don't worry about that. Because that is going to be a core of our fine-tuning chapter, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Sir, when we will start the practical, we are only practical node theory. So, Sunil, should I skip this part? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Guys, can I skip this part? Can I directly come to the collab theory or, basically practical?
Sunny Savita: Then how you will get this entire understanding, huh?
Sunny Savita: First, let's take the understanding… understanding this entire thing, the…
Sunny Savita: We'll do the spectacle, guys, okay? Sunil, please.
Sunny Savita: let me go in my flow, please. Okay, you are in my class, so let me go according. So let me go in my flow, and let's understand. Everything is step by step, okay? Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see…
Sunny Savita: So, we understood about the encoder-based model. So, guys, if someone is going to be asked you that, what is a famous encoder-based model and why it was being used, what you will say?
Sunny Savita: Third me?
Sunny Savita: BERT, right? BERT was a model, and it was being used for the text classification. Okay, now one more question to all of you. If we're talking about the early-stage LLM model, so BERT is an early-stage LLM model.
Sunny Savita: BERT is an early-stage LLM model. Okay, great. Now, if someone is going to be asked you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, BERT is an early-stage LLM model, right? Now, how many parameters were there inside the BERT model?
Sunny Savita: How many parameters was there inside the BERT model? What you will say?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So, you will…
Sunny Savita: you have to be checked, right, how many parameters was there. Now, just check out over here, parameter. Even you can check out with the research paper also. So, here is a research paper, guys. Let me open the research paper of the board, right? So, just, press Ctrl-F and write, parameter. So, parameter. You will get that.
Sunny Savita: Over here, somewhere maybe they have mentioned, the total number of parameter. Maybe inside the table only, they have mentioned, okay? So let's search this specific term, how many parameters they were having.
Sunny Savita: they have created maybe one table. Inside that, they have mentioned. Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, someone is saying 340 million parameter. Let me show that thing inside the research paper itself.
Sunny Savita: Did they mention somewhere? No. So what you can do, guys, right now, if you are not able to find out that, you can even read that, or else, just check out directly with the Google, okay? Just write BERT total
Sunny Savita: parameter.
Sunny Savita: total parameter, okay? So once you will write this word total parameter, you will get that, okay? So this AI summary you are getting, here they have mentioned, bird-based model was having 10 million parameter, okay? And this bird large model was having 340 million parameter.
Sunny Savita: Now, if someone is going to be asked you what is a parameter, so what you will say is someone is going to be asked you what is a parameter. So, the parameter is nothing, it is just a weight, okay? Weights, basically, which we are, which, we have, which we have initialized inside the attention layer and inside the feed-forward network.
Sunny Savita: Learnable weights.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Tell me yes or no. Is this thing clear or not? So you can search this small, small thing by yourself. You can explore that part, right?
Sunny Savita: So, under the console, for example… Okay. Now, over here, guys, see, one more thing. Now, if someone is going to be asked you, now, how this BERT model have been trained?
Sunny Savita: how this BERT model have been trained. So, guys, tell me what you will say in that case.
Sunny Savita: how this BERT model have been trained, so we need to be understand that, okay? I will tell… I will show you that pipeline, how this BERT model have been trained. I'll discuss that. Now, guys, the second category… the second category was the encoder and decoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: Right? First category was the encoder, second category was the encoder and decoder-based model, where both things is being… was being used, okay? Now, over here, guys, if you can see, the example of the encoder and decoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: encoder and the decoder-based model. So, here I written the example. The first is a T5.
Sunny Savita: This is a BART, right? BART, again, this is not a BART, it's a BART, B-A-R-T. Then MT5 and Flint T5. Now, can anyone tell me who invented this T5?
Sunny Savita: So this T5, basically, it was invented by the Google again. Actually, in 2019, in 2020, Google was leading the entire thing, right? Google was leading the entire thing with respect to this AI, this large language model and all. Then BART, guys, can you tell me who invented this BART, this model?
Sunny Savita: This model was invented by the… meta. Correct.
Sunny Savita: Meta invented the model. Now, who invented the bird?
Sunny Savita: B-E-R-T, Google invented the board, okay? Now, MT5, again, it was from the Google.
Sunny Savita: And again, this flying T5, it was from the Google.
Sunny Savita: So, these are only the model, encoder-decoder-based model? No.
Sunny Savita: We have so many models, okay? You can check that, you can explore that. I just… I just kept couple of name over here, the famous name, basically, right? But most of the time, you will see at most of the places. And this was being used very eagerly, guys.
Sunny Savita: This model, it was a leg… it is a legacy, and it was being used a lot in 2019 and 20.
Sunny Savita: When this modern LLM era came, so everyone forget about this model, now everyone is, doing the prompt-based, everyone, like, generating the prompt-based output, okay? Now, guys, what is the… what was the use case, the primary use case for this particular model, the encoder and decoder-based model?
Sunny Savita: So here, inside this particular model, we have an encoder.
Sunny Savita: Encoder, and the decoder both.
Sunny Savita: This is the decoder, right? Encoder and decoder. So, if we're talking about this kind of model, this type of model, guys, now tell me, guys, what was the primary use case of this particular model? One we have already learned, which was shown inside the original research paper.
Sunny Savita: The one is basically this one, translation.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Data translation. Machine translation. The second is the summarization, right? We are giving one sentence, one sentence to the encoder.
Sunny Savita: Right, encoder, and it is summarizing the sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Or it is translating the sentence. The second is a question answering. So we are asking any sort of a question from here.
Sunny Savita: And the answer is being generated.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so for this kind of use case, guys, we were using this, encoder and decoder-based model, and T5, basically, T5 and BART, this was a very good model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This was a very good model, and it was being used in 2019 to 2020.
Sunny Savita: I can show you the research paper of this model. If you're directly going to be searched over the Google, right? So just, write, T5 research paper, T5 research paper. So, here you will get the T5 research paper. Just check out the full form and all everything. So what is a full form, guys? What is the full form of the T5?
Sunny Savita: See?
Sunny Savita: transformer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer, okay? Maybe it is a revised version of this T5, so that's why they have mentioned 23. Similar, the same thing you will get inside the transformer also. So, you will get the revised version of the transformer. Actually, this research was invented in 2017.
Sunny Savita: But… Here, you will find out the 23, okay?
Sunny Savita: maybe they have revised this particular thing in terms of the citation and all, or some reference and all, okay? So, here also you can see… see, this is the name, actually. Limit… Limits of Transformer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this particular model was being used for the translation, for the machine translation, and it was a very good model.
Sunny Savita: It was a very good model. Now, over here, we have another model. I can write over here, BART model. Okay, BART research paper.
Sunny Savita: So if I will open that, now see…
Sunny Savita: But denoising, sequence-to-sequence, pre-training for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension.
Sunny Savita: So this, basically research, was from the Facebook, and it was, published in 2019, okay? Now, here you can see the people were from the Facebook only.
Sunny Savita: And, this model, this particular model also was leading this, sentence translation, okay? So, transformer model was invented, then, BERT, GPT, T5, and then this, BART model, okay? So this model basically was quite popular.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, if you will look into my notes, so what you will get, guys, you will get the use cases.
Sunny Savita: So, first of all, tell me, this encoder, decoder use cases are clear to all of you. Just let me know in the chat if this encoder and decoder-related use cases are clear.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, over here, I kept some examples so that you can understand what is the meaning of the translation. So, translation is, I think, a very simple thing. So, if you are giving any sort of an input, and the output is being generated in a different language, that is called the translation, okay? Now, here you can see, this is related to the summarization.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I kept the example of the summarization also. So, if you're giving any… if you're giving any sort of an input, and if you're getting a summary of that.
Sunny Savita: So that is called the samurai JSN, and I hope you are able to see this particular tran… this particular example. You can, go through with, you can go through with this particular notes, and you can, step by step, you can read out all the example and all everything.
Sunny Savita: So, it will give you the good learning, okay? Now, over here, the next one is going to be question answering. In the question answering, what happened, guys? Tell me. So, we are going to be asked a question.
Sunny Savita: Alright? And the answer is being generated with respect to that caution. So, first we are giving a context, then we are asking a question, and then output is being generated. So, this question-answer also was being handled using this T5 model, using this BART model, okay? And the different, different variant of the T5 and the BART.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, here I written a summary. So, what I did, guys, I written a summary over here. Let me, read it for you. So, encoder and decoder model are the best when we need to understand the input.
Sunny Savita: and generate the new structure output, such as translation, summarization, or the answer, okay? Answer of the question. So this model basically was being used, this encoder and decoder-based model, in 2090-20 in this particular era, and this was quite famous for this particular task.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, is this clear to all of you? This slide is clear. If it is clear, just let me know. I can proceed with a different slide then. Okay? Just give me a quick thumbs up. Now, over here, guys, if you will check out, so how many research paper we have gone through so far?
Sunny Savita: So this is one, then 2nd, then third, then fourth, right? Then fifth, then sixth.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, it is possible to read out each and every research paper to go through with each and every research paper? No, guys. It is not possible for you, it is not possible for me, right? It is possible whoever wanted to do the PhD, whoever wanted to, like, do the research.
Sunny Savita: Right? Whoever, basically, into the research side. So, if we're talking about
Sunny Savita: if we're talking about the bigger companies, right? Google, Google, right? Or Meta, Okay? Or Apple…
Sunny Savita: So, guys, this company is having some research position. Not only this company, the other company also. The different other GCCs, different other, different, the companies basically belong to the different domains, like pharma, fintech, okay, finance.
Sunny Savita: pharma, medical, right? From the different, different domain, basically, right? So they have a specific department, okay, or in a bigger university, actually, you will find out a specific department, which is, hiring the PhD holder, which is hiring the research scientist, okay, which is hiring the AI researcher.
Sunny Savita: If you are going for this particular role, PhD, research scientist, AI researcher and all.
Sunny Savita: In that case only, you will have to be read the architecture, or you will have to be go through with the research paper of each and every model, right? But if you are into the development side, like, we are, right? Okay, so I am into the development side, AI developer side, or you are into the development side, whoever has joined this session, maybe 90-95% people.
Sunny Savita: Even up to 99% people are the development side.
Sunny Savita: So for those folks, you no need to be understand that each and every research paper and the architecture and all.
Sunny Savita: You just… you should have the high-level understanding that what is happening here. You should be connected with the dots, you should be connected with the history, that is fine for you. Your main task to deliver the application, to build the application, using the GenAI concept. Getting my point, guys? So this thing should be clear over here.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Great.
Sunny Savita: So, Bhagwandas are saying, now, why you are teaching so depth?
Sunny Savita: I'm giving you the overview in depth, okay? Transformer, I have to teach.
Sunny Savita: Because I committed, right? At least one thing you should be aware of.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys. Now, the third thing, okay, the third, basically, the third type of model, the third type of model here is called the decoder-based model, okay? Decoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, these are the model which is leading to the current industry, which is leading to the current industry of the large language model. So, over here, you can see the GPT, Llama, Mistral, DeepSea, Quan model, right? So, these all are modeled, basically, it's a
Sunny Savita: This… all the model, actually, this… all the model are the decoder-based model, okay? Now, what is a use case of this model? Tell me, guys, what is a use case of this particular model?
Sunny Savita: what is the use case of this particular model? So the use case of this particular model are very, very simple, just to generate a text, okay? Text generation. So this model, actually, it is being trained in such a way that
Sunny Savita: it's going to be generated text, right? So this particular model is also called the Journal Purpose Model.
Sunny Savita: Journal-purpose Model.
Sunny Savita: What is the meaning of the general purpose model, guys? Can anyone tell me what is the meaning of the general purpose model?
Sunny Savita: So the meaning of the general purpose model, basically, it can not only generate the text, it can generate the variety of the thing.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We can utilize it for the different, different tasks. We can utilize it for… we can utilize it for the different, different tasks, okay? Now, over here, I written one more, sentence. See, they predict the next token, one by one, and can generate many type of output. It can generate anything.
Sunny Savita: what it can do, guys, it can generate anything, and because of that, because of that, it is a journal purpose model, right? So here I return some use case of the text generation. Now, tell me, guys, conversational AI, like chatbot, QA assistant.
Sunny Savita: It is a… it is a very good example of this general purpose model, of the GPT model, of this Claude model, Jimmy model. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: And guys, this conversational AI is a very, very important thing. And even, we are going to design one conversational system in our application… in our class itself, okay? And this conversational AI, actually, it is a very…
Sunny Savita: like, a very important application of the current generative AI. If you're going in… if you're going in any enterprise, in any, basically company, right? So, somewhere, anyone is designing this conversational system.
Sunny Savita: somewhere anyone is designing this conversational system, and where actually we have to accumulate all the concept of the generative AI, right? If you wanted to become a champion in the generative AI, if you wanted to become a champion into the generative AI guys, then I would highly suggest you to work on a conversational AI system.
Sunny Savita: Okay? There, you are going to be used most of the concept.
Sunny Savita: Got it? Now, code generation. Again, using this particular model, we can do the code generation also.
Sunny Savita: Content writing, we can do the content writing, we can do the reasoning-based task, any sort of a task, okay, which is belonging to the heavy reasoning, we can do that task also. And because of that, guys, this decoder-based model, right? Decoder-based model, GPT, Mistral, DeepSeek, this is called the general purpose model.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys, yes or no. Now, this model, actually, it is not limited to this one.
Sunny Savita: It is not limited to this one. It can generate the variety of the thing, right? So what it can generate, let me tell you that as well. And after that, guys, I will come to the early stage LLM training pipeline, okay? What all steps, basically, they were having. So…
Sunny Savita: Let me do one thing over here. Let me, show you this particular… Just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay…
Sunny Savita: I think you can read this one, no?
Sunny Savita: Why it is not coming.
Sunny Savita: Fine, this one, guys. So today, most popular LLM, right, which are based on the decoder-only style, because they're
Sunny Savita: Core task, what is the core task of that particular model? The core task is to next token prediction and the generation, okay? So the simple summary, simple, basically, simple summary I have written over here. Just go through with these notes one by one, you will be able to get it, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about today's LLM, guys, the current LLM, it is not limited to the text, okay? It can generate the variety of the thing. So, let me highlight what all things it can generate. So, over here, guys, see?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the LLMs, right, the current LLM,
Sunny Savita: Or it is also called the Multimodal LLM.
Sunny Savita: multi-model LLM. So you can provide a various kind of data to this particular LLM, okay? Or you can provide, guys, see, you can provide text.
Sunny Savita: You can provide images, you can provide audio, you can provide video.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, with respect to this particular data, you can generate the variety of the data. You can generate the text, you can generate the images, you can generate the audio, and you can generate the video, guys.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, this particular model, the model, basically, which we're talking about, the large language model, the current large language model, okay, it is very much capable to generate every kind of data. So, here I can write text.
Sunny Savita: Images.
Sunny Savita: Then here the next is going to be audio, and then video. Okay? Then here is what text is.
Sunny Savita: Done.
Sunny Savita: image.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then, audio.
Sunny Savita: And then, video, guys.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, if we are passing text, can we generate text using this LLM?
Sunny Savita: Can anyone give me the example of any LLM, guys?
Sunny Savita: Any LLM, let's say GPT, right? GPT.
Sunny Savita: 5.5, right? Recent-release GPT, or any model from the cloud, any model from the, basically Gemini, right? So it is capable to do that.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the other one, let's say if we are passing text, can we generate the image? Is it possible?
Sunny Savita: If we are passing text, can we generate the image? Yes, this is possible. So, here's the example. Delhi is an example.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say we are passing text, can we generate the audio?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Nano Banana, correct? Nanobanana is example. So, text-to-speech is speech-to-text, it is possible, guys. Whisper model, right? STT model, TTS model, text-to-speech model, very famous model, text-to-speech model.
Sunny Savita: It is there, right? Where we can provide a text, which can generate the audio. We can provide a text, can we generate the video also? Yes, we can generate that. Sora is a model, Sora is a system, right? Runway.
Sunny Savita: runway, right? It is one of the models. With that, we can generate the
Sunny Savita: we can generate the video as well, okay? Now, similar goes with the images, same thing goes with the audio, video. So, today's LLM is the homogeneous LLM, and as well as the heterogeneous LLM, okay? So, what is the meaning of the homogeneous, guys? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: What is the meaning of the homogeneous?
Sunny Savita: Homogeneous means same input and same output. Homogeneous means what? Same input.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Same output.
Sunny Savita: Now, we're talking about the heterogeneous. What is the meaning of the heterogeneous? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: And heterogeneous. Heterogeneous means… A different input, and a different output.
Sunny Savita: different input.
Sunny Savita: And the… different output.
Sunny Savita: So, is this thing clear to all of you? Is this thing clear to all of you? And now, whatever LLM, whatever multi… large language model, whatever multi-model LLM you can see, so it is based on what, guys? It is based on the…
Sunny Savita: decoder architecture.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And guys, tell me what is the main concept inside the decoder? If we're talking about the attention concept.
Sunny Savita: mask, mask.
Sunny Savita: self-attention, okay? So this particular concept is compulsory for all of you guys. It is a very important concept, and because of that, only this model is being trained.
Sunny Savita: The second concept is called the cross attention.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Whatever heterogeneous model you are seeing, whatever heterogeneous model you are seeing, whatever heterogeneous model you are seeing, it is using this cross-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: All the multi-model, large language model is using this cross-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: And in every training of the decoder model, right? Sorry, in every training of every LLM, right, this mask self-attention is being used. This mask self-attention. This feed-forward neural network is there, but this is the heart, right?
Sunny Savita: This is the heart of the system. So guys, please, so guys, what, please master this concept, it is very much important. Now, I'm coming to the one more concept. If we're talking about the early-stage model training.
Sunny Savita: Right? A early stage model training, so how this training was being done. So we need to… we need to understand that part, guys. And after that, I will come to the modern LLM training pipeline.
Sunny Savita: And the different, different modern LLM, basically, which we have, okay? So one by one, step by step, I will give you the definition of each and everything, so your entire concept is going to be clear. So tell me, guys, are you with me till here? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Are you with me till here? Are you liking the session? Are you liking the flow?
Sunny Savita: How can, no, we are passing same thing from the decoder only.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are passing same thing from the decoder only, input, as well as the output. Sashank, in a single prompt, in a single sentence, we are passing that, and it is being processed inside the cross-encoder. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: So there, we don't require the encoder, okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys. So, let's do one thing. Let's understand the training pipeline of the early-stage LLM model, okay? Now, guys, see, whenever we are talking about the LLM model.
Sunny Savita: LLM model. So, we have two types of LLM model.
Sunny Savita: The first type of LLM model is called the early-stage LLM model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: early stage LLM model.
Sunny Savita: Now, the second type of model is called the modern, LLM.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: modern LLMs.
Sunny Savita: Now, can you even give me the name? Can you even give me the name of the early-stage LLM model? Tell me, guys, first.
Sunny Savita: The first name which comes in your mind, that is Bord. And even you are right, okay?
Sunny Savita: BERT is a model. The second is what?
Sunny Savita: GPT is a model, okay? The first variant of the GPT, GPT1 and 2.
Sunny Savita: The third one is going to be, let's say, T5.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The fourth is going to be BART model, B-A-R-T.
Sunny Savita: Okay, BERT model, B-A-R-T, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the modern LLM, if we're talking about the modern LLM, guys, now tell me what all the name, what name we have.
Sunny Savita: The first name is the… GPT, right? Let's say GPT-5.
Sunny Savita: Second, that's a Gemini, okay?
Sunny Savita: generally. Third, let's say, Claude model, SONAT, and the different other model, right?
Sunny Savita: Opersonet. The fourth I can write over here, let's say, from the meta, okay?
Sunny Savita: Metal Llama.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the model. So, these are the modern LLM model. Now, there is a difference between this training and their training, right?
Sunny Savita: So, if we're talking about the early-stage LLM training, right, the overall concept, from where they took the overall concept, guys, so if you wanted to master the overall concept, you can read out this ULM Fit research paper.
Sunny Savita: Okay, ULM filter research paper, they are actually… they have discussed about it. Now, if we're talking about the early stage LLM, so there, we were having two stages over there. The first stage is called
Sunny Savita: The first stage is called.
Sunny Savita: pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is also called… Unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: unsupervised, pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Or, this is also called… Self-supervised learning.
Sunny Savita: This is also called.
Sunny Savita: Self-supervised learning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: The second stage is called… Supervise fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Supervised fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Are you able to understand that what all the stages we have?
Sunny Savita: The first stage is called the pre-training, which is called the unsupervised pre-training, or self-supervised, self-supervised learning, and the second stage is called the supervised fine-tuning, okay? Now, if we're talking about the modern LLMs, so there, actually, we have three stages.
Sunny Savita: First, it is called the unsupervised pre-training, it is the same one.
Sunny Savita: Unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Or… Self-supervised learning, okay? Self-supervised training.
Sunny Savita: Self-supervised training. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Self-supervised training.
Sunny Savita: The second is called supervised fine-tuning, or instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: There, actually, we are going to be using a special kind of instruction tuning that is called a PAFT.
Sunny Savita: PEFT.
Sunny Savita: And one of the con… one of the techniques to achieve this parameter-efficient fine-tuning, it is called a LORUM.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we'll discuss about this LoRa, we'll discuss about this, supervised fine-tuning, instruction fine-tuning. And the third technique is called the
Sunny Savita: Third technique is called the preference alignment.
Sunny Savita: preference alignment.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, we're talking about the preference alignment. So, RLHF is one of the technique, the old technique which we use.
Sunny Savita: Then, we have some other technique also, so I can write those specific technique. Rlhf is technique, GRPO is a technique, okay?
Sunny Savita: ORPO is a technique, then DPO is a technique. So these are the techniques, basically, to achieve the preference alignment. And even if we're talking about the PEP, so LORA, QLORA is a technique, then we have one more technique that is called a DORA, okay, D-O-R-A.
Sunny Savita: It is more optimized technique, okay? So this is the training pipeline. This is the training pipeline of any advanced
Sunny Savita: or any modern LLM.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, this is the difference, the… the difference, basically, which we have between what? Between the early-stage LLM pipeline, training pipeline, and the modern LLM training pipeline, okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: So, we'll discuss all this thing, this, unsuper… sorry, this SFT instruction tuning, LoRa technique, Q-LoRa technique, preference alignment technique, like RLHF, TPO, and all, inside our fine-tuning chapter, okay? What is the full form of the PEPT? It is called parameter Efficient Fine Tuning, right? Now.
Sunny Savita: We have to be understand, okay, if we will go through with this particular,
Sunny Savita: If you will check out with these particular, points, right, first point and the second point, early stage LLM,
Sunny Savita: early-stage LLM, training, right? So, we are having two things, pre-training and the supervised fine-tuning. So, here I return the points with respect to that. So just focus over here, just try to read all these points, what I return.
Sunny Savita: We were talking about the early-stage model training, so there we were having two things. The first is called self-supervised or unsupervised pre-training. Now, what is the meaning of that? The meaning of that, basically, we have a data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? But the data, actually, it is a not-labeled data.
Sunny Savita: non-labor data.
Sunny Savita: So first, the label is being created of the data, The label is being created.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: And then the training will happen. And what is the meaning of the supervised fine-tuning? So, this is the curated data.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if I wanted to train my model for a specific task. Now, tell me, guys, BERT model.
Sunny Savita: for created, for which task? Tell me, I just told you this BERT model for created which task?
Sunny Savita: The BERT model was created for the Text classification task.
Sunny Savita: So if I'm going to be trained my model.
Sunny Savita: If I'm going to be trained, if I'm going to be trained, ma'am.
Sunny Savita: unsuper… if I'm going to be trained my pre-trained model on some specific task, that is a text classification, okay? And after that, guys, what I will get, I will get a mature model. So, at this particular stage, I'm teaching to my model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, to follow the language, okay, to understand the data, and then I'm training my model on some specific task. So, BERT model, basically, it was trained on some text classification data in the second stage, right? So, in stage 1,
Sunny Savita: there would be self-supervised pre-training. So, in this stage, the model learns language pattern from the large amount of unlabeled text.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, if we're talking about the bird, guys, inside the BERT, for this particular technique, for the unsupervised pre-training, this MLM concept was being used, which is called mask language modeling.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Masked language modeling. So, what was the input? What was the input inside the masked language modeling? So, let's say this is the input. The cat
Sunny Savita: Okay, this particular word is being masked, we have to predict this word, and this is the further sentence. So, this is my target word, okay? So this sentence will be given, okay, the middle sentence, or anywhere, some sentence will be masked one.
Sunny Savita: And we have to predict that sentence, right? So over here, the model learns to predict the missing words using the both left and right contexts.
Sunny Savita: This was being done inside the board for the pre-training.
Sunny Savita: For the pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Just to teach the model, okay? Just to teach the model language pattern.
Sunny Savita: So that model can understand the language pattern.
Sunny Savita: Language pattern means what? The core understanding of the language.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, over here, if we're talking about the GPT,
Sunny Savita: So, in the GPT, how the unsupervised pre-training was being happened? So, we're talking about the GPT, guys. In GPT, it was doing the next token prediction. So, let's say this is my input, I love machine. So, the target word would be the next word, learning, okay? The next word. So, it was doing the next word prediction inside the GPT.
Sunny Savita: Right? So if I can summarize, right, so here you can see the other example. So, here the model look at the previous token and predict the next token. So here is the input. Artificial intelligence is a powerful, okay? So, the sequence becomes this one.
Sunny Savita: So GPT… what… what we were doing inside the GPT… so inside the GPT, basically, we were predicting the next token.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next token. So, this is called the autoregressive training, right? We were predicting the next token. So, we're talking about the GPT, so GPT learns by repeatedly predicting the next token from the huge text.
Sunny Savita: From the use text. So, over here, what I mentioned, in pre-training, the model learns language structure, grammar, facts, pattern, okay?
Sunny Savita: without manual understanding, so here you can read, see, without manually label the data, right? So we are not providing a labeled data.
Sunny Savita: the data is being, itself generated, right? Means the data will be generated in such a way, the data will be passed in such a way, that it will be a label, right? And, what is being happened? This pre-training is being happened, right? So again, let me summarize this entire thing, what I'm saying. So, we're talking about
Sunny Savita: LLM training, okay?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the LLM training, So there…
Sunny Savita: This first stage is very important. The stage is called Unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Unsupervised.
Sunny Savita: pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, inside this stage, what we are doing, we are teaching language pattern, language pattern, to our data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Language pattern to our data. Now, we have two ways of doing it.
Sunny Savita: The first, basically, MLM.
Sunny Savita: Mask language model, which is… which was in… which was being used inside the bot.
Sunny Savita: The second is called autoregressive modeling.
Sunny Savita: which was being used inside the GPT.
Sunny Savita: In mass language modeling, what we were doing, in mass language modeling, basically, we were predicting Predict mask word.
Sunny Savita: mask work.
Sunny Savita: We were talking about the autoregressive modeling, so we were predicting the Next word.
Sunny Savita: Next word.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, guys, just tell me, if we're talking about the modern LLMs, modern LLMs.
Sunny Savita: like the latest GPT, Latest GPT, Latest Gemini, Claude model.
Sunny Savita: So, just think over here, which pre-training technique they might be using.
Sunny Savita: this one.
Sunny Savita: Or this one.
Sunny Savita: They must be using this technique. This is a technique. This technique.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this particular technique.
Sunny Savita: This particular technique is being used inside the current LLM, the modern LLM, for the pre-training.
Sunny Savita: pre-training. This is called the unsupervised… unsupervised.
Sunny Savita: Unsupervised pre-training, or it is also called the self-supervised
Sunny Savita: self-supervised pre-training, okay? Now, over here, guys, the question comes, how the data is being created for that. Let's say, let's say I have a simple text. The text is.
Sunny Savita: My name… is… Sunny… Savita?
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: And… I teach AI.
Sunny Savita: If this is my data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if this is the data, this data, let's say it's an internet data. Just think for the minute, this data, actually, it's the internet data, okay? I'm taking it from the internet.
Sunny Savita: So, I have to perform the unsupervised pre-training over here.
Sunny Savita: Unsupervised pre-training. Or I have to perform self-supervised pre-training. Self-supervised training. Now, tell me, guys, do we have any label inside this data?
Sunny Savita: Do we have any label inside this data? No, we don't have any label. So, in what way the data will be created, so the data will be created in this way. We'll be having input, you'll be having the output. Now, we're talking about the GPT guys.
Sunny Savita: So what we are doing inside the GPT, we are doing auto-regressive modeling.
Sunny Savita: What is the aim of the autoregressive modeling? To predict the Next token.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's take a window size, let's say my window size is 3. So I'm taking 3-3 tokens, my name is… So what is the next token, guys? The next token is going to be Sunny. Now, let's say here I'm taking name is Sunny.
Sunny Savita: So what is the next token? The next token is Savita.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, the next one, is Sunny… Savita.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, the next token is AND. Now, over here, guys, see…
Sunny Savita: What, what, what will be the next one? So here… Sunny?
Sunny Savita: what I'll be writing, guys? Sunny, sunny, Savita?
Sunny Savita: And… Now, the next token is I.
Sunny Savita: So, like, this guy is… like, this guy is, this data is being created.
Sunny Savita: Like this, guys, this data is being created for the…
Sunny Savita: pre-training. And that's why, guys, it is called self-supervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Because we are not providing our label, we are providing a data in such a way, code automatically creating a data like this, with some logic, okay, with the window size, with a given window size, and the training will be happen.
Sunny Savita: And the training is going to be helpful.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Is this training pipeline is clear? Training pipeline of what? Training pipeline of the early stage? Okay, and I… and I explain you what? I explain you the concept of the unsupervised pre-training. Now, tell me, guys, how's the learning so far? Are you able to understand whatever I'm explaining? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? Right? Now, we'll come to the modern training pipeline.
Sunny Savita: And, we'll understand the stages of that. And after that, guys, what I will do, so I will give you the couple of examples. So we have SLMs, okay? Then I have a multimodal concepts, different, different concepts of the multimodal, like CLIP,
Sunny Savita: diffuse and concept, okay. Then, we have a audio-to-text model, text-to-audio model, then text-to-video model, different, different model, I cap. Then, see, image-to-image model, some head, homogeneous model, audio-to-audio model, okay.
Sunny Savita: Then here, you can see video-to-video model, and then you will see the different, different APIs name, from wherever, basically, we can access the model, okay? From whatever places, basically, we can access the model. So these are the name, the different, different name of the API, which I can cap.
Sunny Savita: And this we are going to be use.
Sunny Savita: This we are going to be used, right?
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, how's the session so far? It is, like, full… full of knowledge, and this knowledge is going to be used, throughout your learning, okay, throughout your generative AI learning, right? So I give you the complete overview, and
Sunny Savita: you will understand every sort of a part. So, do you want the dinner break?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, I can give you the dinner break, guys, and yeah. Then we'll start again, okay? So, putting a timer for next 20 minutes, I'll start after 20 minutes. Thank you, guys.
Sunny Savita: And today, our second module is also going to be complete. We are going to be entered into the third one.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so can we start with the session? If everyone is there, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny Savita: So, how's the session is going on?
Sunny Savita: Are you able to understand everything?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Great, fine.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's do one thing. Let's, look into some other point.
Sunny Savita: Right? So guys, what we are trying to understand, we are trying to understand about the LLM pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So here I discuss about the LLM pre-training, and in today's era, in today's world, whatever LLM is being created, so those LLM is using this autoregressive modeling where the next token is being predicted, okay, inside the training.
Sunny Savita: Right? And then, in the inferencing again, it is, just generating a text behalf on that only. Next token prediction.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, if we're talking about the modern LLM training pipeline. So, what, we have three stages over there with respect to that model training pipeline.
Sunny Savita: So, the first stage of that is called the large-scale pre-training.
Sunny Savita: The second is called the supervised fine-tuning, or the instruction tuning. And the third is called the preference alignment.
Sunny Savita: Right? Preference, alignment. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just giving you, like, I'm… I'm just telling you, like, what,
Sunny Savita: how this LLM was being trained, right? What was the idea behind training the LLM, okay? And what is the meaning of the pre-training? I think I already discussed, but let me discuss in terms of this model LLM.
Sunny Savita: So what I'm doing here, just a second, let me create one more page over here.
Sunny Savita: And, what I'm doing, I'm searching.
Sunny Savita: I'm searching something. What I'm searching, guys, I'm searching ChatGPT.
Sunny Savita: Training.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So if I'm saying chat GPT training now, so I'm, talking about the… so I'm, searching about the GPT training, actually, right? So let me… see, this is one of the images, what I can do, I can take this image, okay? And now what I can do, I can keep it inside my, not this one, a blackboard.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, is it visible? This image is visible to everyone?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Right? Okay, great. So, guys, what I was saying… C.
Sunny Savita: Let me explain you over here.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about the… early stage LLM, right? Let me write again.
Sunny Savita: early.
Sunny Savita: stage.
Sunny Savita: LLM.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, how many steps were there for the training in the early-stage LLM?
Sunny Savita: The first stage was the… unsupervised.
Sunny Savita: pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Or?
Sunny Savita: Self-supervised training.
Sunny Savita: The second is called the SFT.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the modern LLM, Modern LLM.
Sunny Savita: So, how many stages we have in the modern LLM? So, these two stages are same, this one.
Sunny Savita: Unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: unsupervised.
Sunny Savita: Pre-training, or self-supervised learning, or self-supervised training.
Sunny Savita: And the second is called the SFT.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Supervised fine-tuning. So what is the third stage? The additional stage, which you will find out in the current
Sunny Savita: The third stage, the current, in, sorry, the third stage, which you will find out in the current LLMs, right? The LLM, basically, which is being trained by the OpenAI or Cloud, so that is called the preference alignment.
Sunny Savita: preference alignment.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, these two stages are the same, this one.
Sunny Savita: This stage only is a different one. This particular stage only is a different one. This is the additional stage.
Sunny Savita: I would say.
Sunny Savita: This is an additional step. I will explain SFT and all everything in detail, Mitesh, in the fine-tuning chapter. As of now, I'm just giving you the overview. That's it. Getting my point, right? Now, over here, guys, you can see.
Sunny Savita: Sft is called the supervised Fine Tuning. This is called the supervised Fine Tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the early-stage LLM, so we are having, like, bought… Right?
Sunny Savita: or the other LLM, T5, bot, and all. So, how many parameters we were having?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about these models, so we are having parameter in millions.
Sunny Savita: Millions, okay? Parameter in millions. Now, we're talking about the current LLM.
Sunny Savita: We'll be talking about the current LLM. So the parameter, basically, you will find out, you know, billions.
Sunny Savita: Or even in the trillions.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, if we're talking about this early-stage LLM, like BRR,
Sunny Savita: So, they took the less data.
Sunny Savita: less data.
Sunny Savita: For what? For the unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: unsupervised pre-training, and for the SFT only, they focus on the a specific task.
Sunny Savita: They focus on what?
Sunny Savita: They focus on the specific task.
Sunny Savita: They focus over the specific task, like, let's say, text classification, okay?
Sunny Savita: Text classification.
Sunny Savita: And then they train the model, and they provide it to us so that we can utilize that model, right?
Sunny Savita: So they focus on the specific task, and there they have used less data. And the model was also small, we were just having millions of parameters, right? But if we're talking about the modern LLM, basically, so this pre-training, it happened on the huge amount of data set.
Sunny Savita: It happened over the huge amount of data set that is on a… Internet-scale data.
Sunny Savita: Internet Scale Data.
Sunny Savita: Internet-scale data means what? The data will be in petabyte, it will be in exabyte, okay?
Sunny Savita: petabyte, exabyte, terabyte, so the scale is going to be very, very huge of the data over here, if we're talking about the unsupervised beginning. Now, we're talking about the SFT guys, so here also, they are using the internet data, okay? And this data, actually, mainly they are using the conversational data.
Sunny Savita: conversational data from the internet.
Sunny Savita: from the different, different social media, from the different, different, communication, okay, Reddit, Facebook, Instagram, right? So wherever people are doing a conversation, right, they are picking a data from their conversational data, and they are turning, they are turning their model on top of that.
Sunny Savita: Then the third stage is called the preference alignment. Preference alignment means what? Preference alignment means, which output is being preferred by the human.
Sunny Savita: ChatGPT is giving me multiple responses, right? Now, which output is being preferred by the human?
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So if I… if I can write over here, preference alignment, let me write over here, preference.
Sunny Savita: alignment, okay?
Sunny Savita: Alignment. So, preference alignment, if I can show you the images, right? If we can check out the images, maybe there we will get that. See, here is the prompt, and with respect to that particular prompt.
Sunny Savita: Which response we are going to be preferring.
Sunny Savita: Right? Which response we are going to be preferred. So the data is being labeled later on, after GP… after that model is generating a response, okay? And then, again, I'm training my model on top of that particular data. So that is called the… that is called what, guys? That is called the preference alignment. See, this kind of data, actually, we use inside the preference alignment.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this data, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: This one. So this entire thing, we are going to check in our fine-tuning chapter. I will show you the practical and all everything. As of now, we are just going through… as of now, we're just going with the overview, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, the first stage is called the unsupervised speed training, second is called the SFT, third is called the preference alignment. If we're talking about the modern LLM, if we're talking about the training… if we're talking about the modern LLM, right?
Sunny Savita: So, we are going to be understanding the supervised fine-tuning. I will show you how to perform the supervised fine-tuning, and even we are going to discuss the preference alignment, okay? Now, let's look into this image. So, I think this image is clear. It is just a representation of the preference data. So, let me keep this image, after this one, okay? So, first, I'll keep this image.
Sunny Savita: So, here is the image, guys. Now, if we're talking about a chat GPT, right? So, ChatGPT is a model, or ChatGPT is an application.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the chat GPT,
Sunny Savita: So, ChatGPT is a model, or ChatGPT is an application.
Sunny Savita: ChatGPT, actually, it's an application.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, which model is being used behind this chat GPT?
Sunny Savita: which model is being used… behind used? GPT model is being used.
Sunny Savita: What was the first model? First GPT model?
Sunny Savita: 3.5 turbo.
Sunny Savita: which was published, okay, in the chat GPT. Now, before that, they were having some other model also, like GPT-123, okay? GPT-123. These are the legacy model. This is not being used, right? But this model was a good one.
Sunny Savita: Then the next model was the 4, then 4.1, then 4.0, right? Then 5, then 5.1, 5.2, 5.3.
Sunny Savita: And I think the latest version is a 5.4, or 5.5 maybe.
Sunny Savita: So this is what? This is a GPT model, which is being used behind the chat GPT, okay? So, inside this image also, they have shown you, they have explained how the chat GPT have been trained, okay? So the first stage, how the chat GPT have been trained, or how this GPT model have been trained. Tell me, guys, which will be the correct statement.
Sunny Savita: GPT model is trained, or chat GPT has been trained. Actually, GPT model have been trained. So, this is the training pipeline of the GPT. This is the training pipeline of the GPT. The first…
Sunny Savita: stage is called the pre-training. Can you see this pre-training, guys?
Sunny Savita: This one. So, through this pre-training, what we are doing, we are feeding the internet-scale data.
Sunny Savita: We are feeding the internet-scale data to this pre-training. So, over here, you can see, this is a base model, right? This is the base GPT model that was trained on a bunch of stuff from the internet.
Sunny Savita: for a whole bunch of different things by using the transformer architecture. What they are saying? They are using the transformer architecture. So, GPT, we're talking about the GPT, so it is completely based on the decoder, actually.
Sunny Savita: It is completely based on what? It is completely based on the decoder, right? So once they have trained it over the internet scale data, now tell me, guys, what kind of training it was.
Sunny Savita: What kind of training it was. Tell me, guys, what kind of training it was.
Sunny Savita: So, it was the auto-regressive… Auto-regressive Training.
Sunny Savita: What is the meaning of that? The meaning is, next, token.
Sunny Savita: prediction.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? What is the aim of this particular training? The aim of this particular training, to teach the model… the aim of this particular training, to teach the model language, pattern of the language, okay? Now, after that, guys, they got the base GPT. Now, the base GPT, basically, it was having the journal knowledge.
Sunny Savita: Journal knowledge, okay? Journal knowledge. This base GPT, actually, it is having a general knowledge. Now, guys, tell me, this GPT is having a general knowledge, but whatever GPT we are seeing currently, so it is more prone to the conversation, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: It is more prone to the conversation. So, in the second stage, inside the supervised fine-tuning, what they have done, they picked the same GPT model, this pre-trained GPT model, and they have performed the supervised fine-tuning of that particular model.
Sunny Savita: They have performed the supervised fine-tuning of that particular model. So there, what they were doing, they collected the data from the different, different places, like Reddit, Facebook, the conversational data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The conversational data, there, basically, we are having a question and the answer, okay? And then, again, they have trained our model, that particular model, that particular model, where they have trained over this particular data, caution and answer.
Sunny Savita: And this was the proper label data. This was the proper label data. So this is the first stage, this is the second stage, and now the third stage, basically, it is called the preference alignment using the RLHF.
Sunny Savita: Okay, preference alignment using the RLHF. So, RLHF is one of the techniques to align the preferences. What kind of preferences? Human preferences. So, here, if you are going to see, guys, so we have a caution. Now, with respect to this question, we have a two-answer.
Sunny Savita: Now, which… which answer is being preferred by the human, right? Which answer is being preferred by the human? So, on top of that particular data, again, we were training our model.
Sunny Savita: So, whatever LLM you can see, whatever LLM you are seeing, whether it's a GPT LLM, whether it's a Claude, right, Claude, Opus, Sonad, or it's a Gemini.
Sunny Savita: It is a deep-seek.
Sunny Savita: the model, basically, which you are able to access, okay, the huge model, the bigger model, which you are able to access, right, which you are able to access, this model, actually, it went through to this particular pipeline. Stage 1, Stage 2, or Stage 3. At least they have trained till this stage 2.
Sunny Savita: First, unsupervised pre-training, and second, supervised fine-tuning. So this thing, we are going to be learning supervised fine-tuning, preference alignment in our fine-tuning chapter, okay? I will show you that.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, what I did inside this particular slide, I have mentioned the entire points, okay? Whatever I have explained to you so far. Let's revise it with this particular slide.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about this stage one, this pre-training one. So, inside this, the model is trained on an internet-scale data set. What is the goal? Next token prediction.
Sunny Savita: what it is going to be learned? It is going to be learned language, facts, reasoning, pattern, okay? General knowledge, basic instruction, pattern, and all, right? So, I think I didn't put the comma, you can check. So, language, facts, reasoning, pattern, code, general knowledge, basic instruction, it's going to be understand the entire language.
Sunny Savita: Then the second stage is called the supervised fine-tuning, or instruction tuning. Here we are… here we are creating a master model, which is master in the conversation.
Sunny Savita: in the general purpose conversation, right? So the model is trained on a human written instruction. Example.
Sunny Savita: let's say this is the, like, question, and this is the answer. This kind of data, basically, we are going to be generate… we are going to be, like, scraped from the internet and all, we are going to be curated from our end, and we are training the model.
Sunny Savita: The stage third is called the preference alignment, okay? Preference alignment. So the model is aligned to the human preferences, or AI preferences, right? Whichever is being preferred by the
Sunny Savita: human or AI, okay? What are the methods? RLHF, DRPO, ORPO, GRPO,
Sunny Savita: Okay, a DPO, so these all are the method, actually, for achieving the preference alignment, right? So why it is helpful, guys? Why this preference alignment is helpful? So, preference alignment is helpful for awareness, for, okay, for the polite answer, for the better reasoning, for the less harmfulness, okay, for the, for the less harmful output, for the better refusal behavior, right? For the better behavior, the behavior according to the
Sunny Savita: human, right? So, over here, you can see what I can do, guys, just a second, let me…
Sunny Savita: Correct that thing.
Sunny Savita: Oh, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, wherever I didn't put the comma now, let me put it. So, follow instruction following answer, formatting, helpful response, okay, and task completion. You can read this one. Now, RLHF,
Sunny Savita: Now, over here is a DPO, this is one of the methods, ORPO, GRPO.
Sunny Savita: and Constitution, AI, RLF, IEF, okay? But don't worry, I will show you this again in the fine-tuning chapter. So, here is a…
Sunny Savita: Safe answer, polite tone, okay? Better reasoning, then less harmfulness. Now, after that, guys.
Sunny Savita: Less harmful output, better refusal behavior.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, over here you can see the training pipeline of the modern LLM, in how many stages that model was being trained.
Sunny Savita: Now, we're talking about the modern LLM, guys, tell me on which architecture it is dependent. Tell me, guys, on which architecture it is dependent. It is dependent on the decoder architecture, okay? Transformer, decoder architecture. So, guys, what is a conclusion of this entire learning?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, what is the conclusion of this entire learning? If I'm talking about this entire learning, what you are going to be understanding with that? Let me summarize it, and then I will come to the next part, okay? So, the summarization is very, very simple.
Sunny Savita: First of all, guys, what you have to do, you have to understand about a transformer.
Sunny Savita: Which I already explained you.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: The second thing you need to understand, you need to look
Sunny Savita: The different, different model, encoder-based model, Okay.
Sunny Savita: encoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: Encoder and decoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: And the fourth is a decoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Decoder-based model.
Sunny Savita: So till here, everything is clear, right? You are clear, right? What a transformer, encoder, decoder, encoder, decader-based model. And then you need to understand about the use cases. For which use cases, guys, this particular model have been created.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the use cases, use cases-wise, so this is created for the text classification, for generating the embedding, this is for the summarization, for the translation, this is for the… this is the general purpose model, okay? Mainly for the text generation. Text generation, general purpose model.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I'm saying it is a general purpose model, text generation model, so we can do every sort of a NLP task with this model only, right? If we're talking about the summarization, if we're talking about the, basically, translation, right? So we can do every sort of a task with this decoder only, because at the end, everything is a text generation.
Sunny Savita: At the end, everything is a text generation only, right? So, this decoder model, decoder-based model, like the GPT, Jimmy, and all, it's a general purpose model, general-purpose model.
Sunny Savita: Right? And we can do every sort of a task using this model only. And because of that, guys, you will not be able to find out the latest encoder-decoder-based model, latest encoder-based model, no. You will only find out the LM, which is a general-purpose model, which can do every sort of a NLP task, okay?
Sunny Savita: or more than NLP, guys, which can do every sort of NLP and even CV-related task. So, in short, I can say, which can do every, sort of AI-related task, okay? It is capable, this LLM is able to understand any sort of a prompt.
Sunny Savita: whatever we are providing, whatever context we are providing, it is a general-purpose model, and it can do every AI-related task, whether it is an NLP-related, CV-related.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Audio, video, every kind of data is being processed by this LLM nowadays, because, guys, this decoder have been trained on a very huge amount of data, right? Now, after that, we understood, right? So, after that, we understood that training pipeline
Sunny Savita: the training pipeline of the early-stage LLM. So, if I'm seeing early-stage LLM, guys, so always I can write the name of the bot, right? It is a very famous model. So, here, the pipeline, basically, it was divided into the two parts. The first was the unsupervised pre-training, and the second was the
Sunny Savita: Second was what? Supervised fine-tuning. Now, for the unsupervised pre-taining, which technique they were using, tell me, they were using the MLM. Okay, mask language modeling. It is different from the mask health attention, right? Mask language modeling. The second was the SFT. Okay, and SFT basically with respect to the text classification.
Sunny Savita: Right? Text classification. Now, if we're talking about the latest LLM, latest LLM, guys, so again, this latest LLM, it is having 3 stages, 1, 2, 3.
Sunny Savita: So, this first stage, basically, it is what? First stage, basically, auto-regressive training. This came from the GPT.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The second is the SFT, okay? Instruction Tuning, supervised Fine Tuning, and it is on a general purpose conversational, okay? Over the conversational data, it is doing a… it is doing what? Over the conversational data, it is doing a SFT. The third is called the preference alignment, right?
Sunny Savita: which is called the RLHF, or DPO. Okay, we'll discuss what is a DPO, what is a RLHF, everything we'll discuss in the upcoming session. So, this is called a DPO, right? DPO. Now, over here, guys, this latest LLM is following just three stages, right? So, I hope you understood this entire thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, over here, you can see, see, encoder, encoder, decoder, decoder, latest LLM. Now, whenever we're talking about the latest LLM, the large language model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we can categorize it into the multiple category. The one is called the text-based large language model, or the normal large language model, okay?
Sunny Savita: The second is called the SLM, right? So here is the LLM, second is called the SLM, and the third is called the Multimodel Large Language Model.
Sunny Savita: Right? LLM means what? Generally, I'm preferring this LLM for the text-based data. SLM means what? It is a smaller version of the LLM. And multimodal large language model means what? Which can process any type of data.
Sunny Savita: any type of data. That is called multi-model large language model. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, LLM, SLM, and multi-model large language model, right? So, I hope, guys, this entire thing is clear.
Sunny Savita: And you are able to understand till here, so far. Now, if you are doing a self-learning.
Sunny Savita: Right? If you are doing a self-learning, okay, so how you can do the self-learning, what all things you can explore from your end? So I would highly recommend you, you can go through with the BERT research paper.
Sunny Savita: Okay? You can understand that. You can understand about the GPT, GPT research paper, the first GPT research paper, or you can understand this 123 GPT research paper, right? You can understand about the T5. So, one is bot, second is a T5, third is a GPT, okay? There's three research papers you can export from your end.
Sunny Savita: This could be… this is a homework for you, okay? You can take this as a homework to explore three research papers. One is a bot, second is a GPT, and third is a T5, so that you will get an understanding of the encoder model.
Sunny Savita: You will get an understanding of the encoder-decoder-based model, and you will get an understanding of the decoder model, which is based on the GPT only. Getting my point? So I can show you the GPT research paper. What you can do, you can simply write.
Sunny Savita: GPT.
Sunny Savita: research paper. So once you will do that, guys, you will get it, generative, pre-trained transformer, okay? So this is, I think, first, research paper of the GPT. You can go through with it, at least the first one. Likewise, you can search second and the third as well.
Sunny Savita: So, you will get the second also, so GPT-2.
Sunny Savita: research paper, okay? So, here I think it's a GPT-2. Then you can search the GPT-3 research paper, okay? GPT-3 research paper.
Sunny Savita: So, I think this is the GPT-3 research paper. So, guys, we have a 3 research paper from the GPT, GPT-1, GPT-2, GPT-3. I will share all the link.
Sunny Savita: So you can take this as a homework, so your each and every understanding with respect to this encoder, encoder, decoder, and the decoder-based model is going to be clarified, okay? But it is just an optional one, just for your general knowledge.
Sunny Savita: This is just for your general knowledge, guys. And again, if you're not going to be learned, it is not going to be harm you in any sort of an interview. Because, as I told you, this is the work of the AI researcher, not a developer, okay? We should have the, high-level knowledge of the, of this entire thing.
Sunny Savita: Okay? If we are good with our training pipeline, if we are able to do the fine-tuning of the model, then it is well and good, okay? You don't need to go through with each and every paper.
Sunny Savita: So this is the third paper, I think, GPT-3. Now here you can see this is the GPT-2 one. Let me open this also.
Sunny Savita: This one, generative AI-based text generation method using P-train GPT model. And then, this is the GPT.
Sunny Savita: 1, okay? Generative pre-trained transformer, I think it's a revised version. So, guys, you can go through all this research paper, it will give you the enough amount of understanding, decent understanding, how this, autoregressive modeling is going to be worked, okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine, till here everything is clear. Can we come now to the LLM, SLM, and the multimodel LLM? Can we explore that side now? At least we can look into the name, okay, so that in future we can use it
Sunny Savita: Any alternative of the transformer? Yes. There is one model, Mamba, okay? M-A-M-B-A. So, if you are going to be searched this thing directly over the Google as well. So…
Sunny Savita: what I can do, what I can write. Competitor of, alternative, of… transformer architecture, okay?
Sunny Savita: transformer architecture. So, if I'm going to be right, alternative of the transformer architecture, you will get a couple of names. So, the one is this state space model, okay, MAMBA model. So, this research is a recent research. It might replace to the transformer. It is more advanced than the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, this is, like, one of the things, one of the, model. You can explore that. Mamba, again, it is a research only. You can check it out. It can process lots of data, the bigger sequence, but yeah, it is a future.
Sunny Savita: In the current model, you will not be able to find this out.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, now let's do one thing, guys. Let's look into the different, different LLM, SLM, and all.
Sunny Savita: So, the first one is going to be LLM. Just a second, let me…
Sunny Savita: insert a page, and I can keep the name of the different, different LLM guys. Give me a moment, okay?
Sunny Savita: I capped in my notepad, where it went.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I think you already know the LLM, the different, different LLMs. Should I write the name? Okay, I can write the name. And even though we are going to be using it, I can show you from the,
Sunny Savita: I can show you from here, from the, like, the leaderboard itself, okay? So, we have a different, different LLM family, guys. Tell me, the first one, first LLM family which we are using a lot. That's a GPT, right?
Sunny Savita: The second LM family, Claude family.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The third family is a Jimny family.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Gemini family. The fourth one.
Sunny Savita: Llama family, correct? We are going to be using it a lot. The fifth one is going to be Mistral.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: The sixth one is going to be DeepSeek.
Sunny Savita: Deep-seek again.
Sunny Savita: is, one of the famous ones. Then the seventh is going to be Grok family. Okay, we can utilize the Grok also. Then, the eighth one is going to be Quen. You know about the Quen.
Sunny Savita: It is, again, from the Alibaba.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So these are some form… these are some, popular families.
Sunny Savita: Right? Mistral is here. Mistral. Ministral, actually, it is a part of that only. Mistral.
Sunny Savita: So it is a French, I think German or French, company. Llama, again, from the Facebook, Jiminy from the Google, Claude from the Anthropic, GPT from the OpenAI, DeepSeek from the… DeepSeek, I think, Grok from the Grok AI, and Quan from the Alibaba.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, these are what, guys, these are the LLM models, large language model, which is having billions and the trillions of parameters.
Sunny Savita: Right? Which is having billions and the trillions of parameter.
Sunny Savita: Many more things is going to be clear with respect to the LLM and all, as we will progress, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, the second category of the LLM is called the SLM, right? So, here I mentioned a couple of points with respect to the LLM, and even I created one video on my YouTube channel, with respect to this SLM. If you wanted to understand this SLM concept, you can go and check over there, right?
Sunny Savita: So, what is a SLM, guys? Just, let's read it out. SLM means a small language model, okay? What is the goal of the SLM?
Sunny Savita: fewer parameter, lower cost, fast inference, and strong performance over the specific data, right? So, in the SLM, basically, we have a less parameter.
Sunny Savita: less… parameter.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So if you're going to be searched over the Google.
Sunny Savita: If you're going to be searched over the Google SLM research paper.
Sunny Savita: SLM research paper. Okay, so you will get this particular research paper. This is a very popular research paper in the AI community. The research paper was published in 2025, and the research paper name is what? Small Language Model, or the Future of the Agentech AI.
Sunny Savita: Okay? A small language model, other feature of the agent API. Now, can anyone tell me who published this research paper?
Sunny Savita: From where this research paper came, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: This research paper, actually, it came from the NVDR, okay? So, what they are saying, they are saying, if we have a model which is having less than 10 billion of parameter.
Sunny Savita: the model… The model, which is having parameter less than 10 billion.
Sunny Savita: So that model we can consider in a small language model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? If the model is having more than 10 billion of parameter.
Sunny Savita: So that model, basically, is going to be a large language model. So this kind of definition, actually, they are giving, this kind of definition being provided by this particular research paper.
Sunny Savita: Again, it is just a reference, okay? So, if we have 9 billion, 8 billion, 7 billion, so this particular model, we can keep inside the small language model category.
Sunny Savita: which is easier to load, which is faster, okay, the cost is also going to be less if we are going to be, fine-tune that. The performance is also fine over the specific task, right? So, these are some of the family, which we can consider as a small language model. You know about the five guys? Can anyone tell me from where it comes?
Sunny Savita: This comes from the Microsoft.
Sunny Savita: Okay, PHY actually is one of the models. This… this file, okay? It comes from the… is come from where? It comes from the Microsoft. Gema, can anyone tell me from where the GMA comes? If we're talking about the GMA, it comes from the Google. Okay, again, it is a model name.
Sunny Savita: Coin is small. Alibaba model, okay? Llama is small. From where? From the Facebook.
Sunny Savita: Mistral 7B, right? Or the smaller model from the Mistral, right? So that also, is going to be SLM. If any model is having parameter less than 10 billion, so we can say that model, actually, it's a small language model. Making sense to all of you, yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? Yes.
Sunny Savita: So, what I'll do, guys, I will show you how you can fine-tune this model, but still, you are eager to learn this SLM and all, so what you can do, you can simply go and check with the GitHub, my GitHub only, the search sun is with the GitHub. Let me open that.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, once you will search Sunisa with the GitHub, na? So, inside that, you will find out one repository.
Sunny Savita: So just go and check in the repository section. Now, over here, you will find out the repository, complete fine-tuning. Now, inside this complete fine-tuning, you will get one fine-tune,
Sunny Savita: folder, fine-tune any SLM, this one. So just open it, and inside this one, you will find out the handwritten notes also, step by step. You can learn the entire detail about the SLM, okay?
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: What is the minimum number of parameters in CLM? Max is less than…
Sunny Savita: Minimum number of parameters, how much it could be.
Sunny Savita: 5 parameter, 10 parameter, Minimum is 1 billion, 10 billion, sorry, 2 billion, 3 billion, right?
Sunny Savita: In any LLM, you will not be able to find out less than million… billion, actually. Okay, of 500 million, 600 million. A lower range could be anything. That also comes under the SLM only, by default. But upper… upper range matter, no?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, below $8 billion RSLM. Yes, below $8 billion, or somewhere 10 billion, okay?
Sunny Savita: 1 or 2 million is nothing for the GPU. It can handle that.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, you can check out with this particular note, if you wanted to go in a detail. I've given you the very, deep understanding with respect to the SLM, okay? But, in the, basically fine-tuned chapter, I can show you how you can do that. It's very simple. You can download any SLM model, and you can do it.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, see, I hope SLM is clear. Now, what are the use cases of the LLM?
Sunny Savita: So, use case of the LLM, basically, you can run it on device, on a smaller device, for… you can deploy it over the phone, mobile phone, and all.
Sunny Savita: enterprise internet chatbot. Okay, so if you're going to be… create a chatbot for the specific task, for the specific… for the company, right? So why to use the bigger model? Okay, so you can take that as a small model, and you can fine-tune it over the specific task, and you can utilize that.
Sunny Savita: domain-specific reg, lower cost inference, fast customer support bot, okay, private deployment, edge AI means you can deploy it on any sort of a device, any smaller device. So for this particular use case, what you can do, you can use the SLM.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Again, the success rate is not very high of the SLM. Whenever we work on an enterprise solution, we always prefer the bigger LLM only for general-purpose LLM.
Sunny Savita: But yeah, we… this is also one of the alternatives, as our infrastructure is going to be strong. We can download the LLM on our own infrastructure, right? Companies providing infrastructure, we can keep it over there, and we can train the company-specific, we can train what? Company-specific, model, right? You know Serum AI?
Sunny Savita: Quino servo mi e.
Sunny Savita: it is an Indian startup, right, which is providing their own model, Sarban model. So this also did a same kind of thing, basically. If you are going to be check, their model, right, the Sarban model, which is attuned over the Indian language.
Sunny Savita: So they also did a same thing. They took some SLM model, they took some data, they fine-tuned that, okay, they host it on their own infrastructure.
Sunny Savita: And they are calling.
Sunny Savita: they are calling the Indian model. But guys, behind that, the story is different. Actually, it is a pre-trained model only, which they picked up from somewhere, right? Or…
Sunny Savita: Many pre-trained model is there, because pre-training is very expensive, guys. You cannot pre-train the model. Only Google, OpenAI, Microsoft can pre-train the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Only Google, Microsoft, and OpenAI only can pre-train the model. No one can pre-train the model. Pre-training is very difficult. If we're talking about this 3.5 ChatGPT model, this one, which I was talking about.
Sunny Savita: This one, 3.5 turbo, the first model, huh? Can anyone guess what was the size of the internet scale data? This one?
Sunny Savita: What was the scale of the data over here?
Sunny Savita: the data scale was the 45TB.
Sunny Savita: Just the pre… for the pre-training only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, 45TB to 100TB, that was the…
Sunny Savita: That was the data which they have used for the first model, GPT-3 and 3.5. I might be wrong, you can check, but yeah, this is the internal range.
Sunny Savita: But guys.
Sunny Savita: For the bigger model, the size is very huge. So, no one can do the pre-training. You, me, cannot do the pre-training. It's not our job. Even for the SLM also, we cannot do the pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so pre-training is the typical job. It's a expensive job. Only Nvidia and the Google and the other big company can do, because they have a huge infra.
Sunny Savita: Okay, they have a huge infra.
Sunny Savita: And those models actually is going to be capable, and we can see the result also, right?
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, is this thing clear till SLM is clear? Tell me yes or no. Everything is fine till here, okay? Now, I have written one note over here, you can read it out. Not every problem needed GPT-level giant model. In many business use cases, a well-tuned SLM
Sunny Savita: which is cheaper, faster, and more controllable, we can use that. Okay? We can use that. So, always asking what's going to be our next topic, so we will move to the practical, we'll explore the different API, means we'll take the different model. I will show you the inferencing from there, and then I'll move to the fine-tuning. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Sora? Is it clear? Okay. Now, after that, guys, here.
Sunny Savita: So you understood about the LLM, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And you understood about the SLM. You got some sort of a definition of that. Now, guys, see, we are going to be extend that, right? We are going to be extend the LLM, right? So we are getting one more level of LLM that is called multi-model LLM.
Sunny Savita: And whatever LLM currently you are seeing in front of you, that is GPT 5.5,
Sunny Savita: Okay, that is GP, Claude Opus.
Sunny Savita: 4.7, right? This is the latest one.
Sunny Savita: And, Jiminy 3, right? Jiminy 3. So, all the models are multi-model LLM. Can this LLM process the audio if you're passing audio to them? Yes, it can process. If you're passing images, it can process that. If you're passing text, it can process that.
Sunny Savita: So, this particular model, actually, this particular model, multi-model LLM,
Sunny Savita: Actually, it's a future, right? And it's a present also. So GPT-5.5, Cloud, AGMNI, these all are the multi-model LLM, which can process the different type of data.
Sunny Savita: Which can process the different type of data.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me yes. Okay, so let's explore the world of the multi-model LLM, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I will take 5 minutes of break, then we'll start. Is it fine? So I need to ex- tell you a few more things related to the multimodal LLM, and then, guys, we are going to be concluded, alright? We have a different, different APIs to explore. See, here I written all the APIs and all everything.
Sunny Savita: So, we'll explore the different, different API. I've given you all the names, but I will tell you what all API we need… we are going to be explore. Means, via LangChan only, we are going to be access the model, right?
Sunny Savita: So guys, just 5 minutes of break, and let me summarize this multimodal LLM also, so that you can read it from your end, right? And let me provide you a couple of more research paper.
Sunny Savita: Is it fine? Just give me quick thumbs up, so that I can proceed. I'll take 5 minutes of break only. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, putting a timer, quick timer, guys, and after that only, I will start. Let me put it for the 4 minute, okay? Quick water break.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we start again? Just give me quick confirmation so that I can explain the further part, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, if we're talking about, see, if we're talking about the…
Sunny Savita: multimodal LLM. Okay, so first let's start with the images only.
Sunny Savita: So let's say this is my LLM.
Sunny Savita: I can write over here, LLM, right?
Sunny Savita: We can pass text to the LLM, correct?
Sunny Savita: And we can generate the text. Is it possible?
Sunny Savita: Yes, definitely it is possible.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say we are passing images to the LLM.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and we are generating images, or…
Sunny Savita: We are generating text, right? So what could be the combination C? We are passing text.
Sunny Savita: via genetic text. So this is called text-to-text.
Sunny Savita: Text to text.
Sunny Savita: Now, if you are passing text.
Sunny Savita: And if we are generating image.
Sunny Savita: So that model is called text-to-image.
Sunny Savita: Text to image.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Let's say we are passing image.
Sunny Savita: And if we are generating text.
Sunny Savita: So that is called image-to-text.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if we are passing images.
Sunny Savita: And if we are generating image.
Sunny Savita: So that model is called image-to-image.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear? There's four categories clear?
Sunny Savita: Is these four categories clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Okay, right? Now here, guys, see.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about this image part, right? Text-to-image or image-to-text. So for that, there's two concepts which we need to be learned, right? Which we need to be understand. So, if you are going to be deep dive into this text-to-image or image-to-text research, so there is two concepts. The first concept is called the VIT.
Sunny Savita: And the second concept is called the clip.
Sunny Savita: What is the full form of the VIT?
Sunny Savita: VIT is called the Vision Transformer.
Sunny Savita: Vision Transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Vision Transformer. And what is a clip, guys?
Sunny Savita: Image pre-training, right? So, contrastive learning, image pre-training. That is the full form of the clip.
Sunny Savita: So, VIT is a vision transformer on contrastive learning. Image pre-training is one of the research papers. This is responsible, this two concepts is responsible from text to image and image to text. There is one more concept. The concept is called the diffusion.
Sunny Savita: Have you heard about the diffusion concept? This is… so this is also one of the concepts, okay, this diffusion concept, actually. It is based on the denoising.
Sunny Savita: denoising.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It is a different process. Actually, diffusion is not a model. It is a process.
Sunny Savita: Right? Diffusion is not a model, it is a process. Now, this is the process of the denoising.
Sunny Savita: So, earlier, we were having unit kind of model, which we were using for the denoising. Nowadays, we have a denoiser, the transformer-based denoiser.
Sunny Savita: transformer.
Sunny Savita: based denoiser.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Transformer-based denoiser. Denoiser, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, again, that we can use inside the diffusion process.
Sunny Savita: Diffusion, actually, it is one type of process for generating the images.
Sunny Savita: For generating what? For generating the images.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, UNET, okay, VNET, UNET, or VAE, variational autoencoder, so this all concept actually comes under the diffusion. It is also one of the processes for generating the images. Have you heard about one very popular model of the diffusion process that is called the stable diffusion?
Sunny Savita: Do you know about the stable diffuser?
Sunny Savita: Stable Diffusion is one of the popular models, which is being used by the mid-journey
Sunny Savita: Have you heard about the mid-journey?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, that is an application, right? So, stable diffusion is one of the popular models which is using this diffusion process. There, for the denoising, we are using the transformer-based denoiser. So, diffusion is not a model.
Sunny Savita: Diffusion is a process to generate the images, okay? And there, we are using some denoiser
Sunny Savita: That could be based on the transformer, right? So, VIT… flip…
Sunny Savita: Right? VIT, Clip, and this diffusion, it is a core, and it is a heart of this image-to-text, text-to-image, and image-to-image.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So, this LLM world, right, multimodal LLM, theoretically, it is very big, guys, very huge. There are so many things to learn.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Practically, RAG agents are nothing, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, what Delhi is using? Delhi is using the CLIP, V-I-T CLIP, right?
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see I written a couple of things. So, we're talking about the multi-model concept, so VIT comes at the first place. What I can do, guys, I can take just 10 more minutes with it, okay? Let me complete it. So, if I'm searching VIT research paper, I will share all this research paper, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, VIT, research, paper, right?
Sunny Savita: paper. So if I'm searching VIT research paper.
Sunny Savita: vision transformer, VIT Transformer research paper. See, this is the research paper.
Sunny Savita: Where they discuss how image is being processed using the
Sunny Savita: How image is being processed using what… using the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys, yes or no? Are you able to understand it or not? Tell me. This is the paper where they are showing how image is being processed using the transformer. See?
Sunny Savita: You can see.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so they are using the transformer architecture for processing the images.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if you will look over here, so the concept is what? What is the concept behind this, vision transformer? You are having images, you are going to be converted into the patches. Patches is just a convolution process.
Sunny Savita: then patch embedding, then transformer encoder, and then that's going to be your image representation, okay? So this is one sort of example, basically, I capped.
Sunny Savita: Right? So…
Sunny Savita: you can go through with the research paper and all, and you can understand detail, right? Now, VIT treated image as a patches, similar to the word, means it's going to be convert the image into the multiple convolution layer. That is going to be similar to the word, and it is passing it to the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and it is a very powerful process for the computer vision. So, computer vision-related issues also we can solve using this transformer, using this VIT, right? And this DALI, right, or the other model, it is using a same kind of concept.
Sunny Savita: same kinds of concept in a backend, right? If you're going through with the research paper. Now, over here, guys, you can see I have something else that is going to be a clip.
Sunny Savita: This is, again, a very important research from the Google. If you're going to be search, clip, right, contrastive language, image pre-training. So, it is an image caption training. So, just search over here, clip.
Sunny Savita: research people.
Sunny Savita: Research paper. Now, once you will search it, guys, see, this is again a research from the Google, actually. Google is leading everything, guys, they are very ahead to us. We are learning this thing, they are developing something, which they will reveal after 20 years, okay? So, Google is very advanced in all these things.
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see, guys, this is the research paper.
Sunny Savita: Learning Transferable Visual Model from the natural language supervision.
Sunny Savita: And, I think this is the same one, right? Yeah, contrastive pre-training. So, how the training is happening? So, here they have ex- mentioned. So, you can read, I written something over here.
Sunny Savita: So what is the concept over here? The concept is very, very simple. Image and image we are passing, image and text both we are passing from the same encoder. Okay, so the training, basically, correct image-text pair.
Sunny Savita: Right? And wrong image text pair means, we are, like, we are, how we, basically, we are trending, let's say we have an image. I can give you the example. Okay, so I created an example over here. So, let's say we have an image over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, inside the image, what we have, let's say we have a dog. Dock running on a grass, okay? Okay? So, what the text… text will be associated, the text, this text will be associated
Sunny Savita: this text will be associated with this particular image, okay? So, kilip image, so I written in the Hindi, don't worry, I will translate it. I was just exploring the thing, so I… creating a notes, that's why I written.
Sunny Savita: I'll convert into the English, okay? So, clip image, what it is doing, guys, it is going to be mapped, embedding in the image into the same space, okay? That's the main name of the clip.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the use case of it? So, image search, right? So, you can go through and check with my GitHub. I created one end-to-end project, so just search Sunny Savita GitHub na. Once you will do that, guys, here you will get one project on top of this, search engine, okay? This I built completely using the clip only.
Sunny Savita: So just go with… through with my repository, and inside the repository now, let me show you one, this one, semantic image search.
Sunny Savita: Now, once you will go through with this particular, once you will go through with this particular project, now it is an end-to-end project, so cementing MH Search. Inside this, you will find out
Sunny Savita: This backend. So I'm going to be use what? I'm going to be use the clip model over here, just to do the image search. If I will pass any, any, text, let's say if I'm writing over here what I'm writing. Over the Google I'm writing.
Sunny Savita: Sunny Savita, right?
Sunny Savita: Sunny Sabitha. So what I'm getting, guys, if I'm writing Sunny Sabitha, in the images, I'm getting my images, right? Sunny, sunny, sunny images. How it is coming, then? How it is coming, right? How this image is being generated? It is a clip.
Sunny Savita: Right? It is because of the clip model.
Sunny Savita: image captioning. This is called the image captioning, right? So, because of the caption, image is being generated. So, that's called text-to-image, okay? So, this concept is there behind this clip. So, is it clear, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So here I written all the things, all the notes and all. So tell me, guys, can we cover this in the next class? There is a couple of more things which I need to be discussed.
Sunny Savita: The different, different things. So, then, guys, I will come to the API, okay? So, what I'll do, guys, I'll come to the API. A different, different API, basically, will try to explore. Means,
Sunny Savita: We'll explore the model from the different, different places. So, what you can do, guys, you can search the langchain, okay? So, langchain, basically, it is providing you the model from the every sort of a place. So, once you will search the langchain, guys, langchain documentation.
Sunny Savita: You can access any sort of a model from the wire line chain itself. So here is a document of that.
Sunny Savita: So, let me show you the integration side. I think they again changed the documentation.
Sunny Savita: So, where I'll get that… Python is here, go to start a sign up.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, langchain… OpenAI model.
Sunny Savita: So once I'll search this, Langchain OpenAI model, I'll get that OpenAI integration via Langchain.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so see, we have an OpenAI integration. Now, apart from that, you will find out the integration for… from every sort of a place. So, see, OpenAI integration is here, then Anthropic is there, then Google is there, then AWS is there, then Microsoft is there.
Sunny Savita: And I think from several, many places, I can access the model, right? So what I'll do, guys, I'll show you via Langshan itself how we can access the different, different model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so in the next class, what I'll do, in the next class, basically, I will, explain you a couple of more critical points with respect to the multimodel LLM, because there is so many, it will take half an hour. Then I will discuss the couple of leaderboards, okay, the different, different leaderboard, basically, I have. Arena Leaderboard, LLM training leaderboard, and finally, I'll come to this model access.
Sunny Savita: We'll do some inferencing using this particular model, okay? And after that, guys, finally, we'll move to the fine-tuning part.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: What is a lecture and all? It will be clarified, okay? In the next class, I'll do that.
Sunny Savita: Sir, can you please cover the BIT and CLIB once more? Yes, I'll give you the quick overview of the BIT and the clip in the next class, okay? So, how's your learning is going on related to the generative AI, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: I mean leadership dashboard, which keeps telling. Actually, it is a leaderboard. Leaderboard… what is the meaning of the leaderboard? Where all the LLM are listed. Okay, so let's see if I'm searching over here, LLM, arena leaderboard.
Sunny Savita: See, I searched RLM Arena Leaderboard. Now, see, what you will get over here?
Sunny Savita: You will get a multiple LLMs, actually, right? Which is a good one, which is the best one. Okay, see, Claude Opus is the best model as of now. It is ranking first.
Sunny Savita: Then Claude, Opus 4.6, Claude 4.6. Now, let's say tomorrow you are doing something using the LLM.
Sunny Savita: Tomorrow, you are doing something using the LLM. Now, which model you are going to be select, how you are going to be decide that. So, you will go through with this leaderboard only.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Who will rank this?
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be ranked.
Sunny Savita: So, communities ranking. They have several parameters, benchmark parameter, and based on that.
Sunny Savita: This model is being ranked, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, you can go through that, you can go through with this particular, link and all. You will get a multiple parameter, okay, you will get a multiple parameter, sorry, you will get a multiple benchmark, benchmarking, result, okay, based on that.
Sunny Savita: This is going to be short, right? You can check out all the models, see, vision-based model is there, document-based, who is processing the document efficiently, web, dev-based, text learning. There are so many models, so many leaderboards, okay? You can explore the different, different leaderboards, and you can understand the ranking of the LLM.
Sunny Savita: So, LLM, leaderboards, okay? So, once you will search it now, you will get that. So, we have so many, see, artificial analysis from this particular place, this particular company, right? From this particular website. So, you will get from here as well, see? They are listing all the different, different LLM, even open source LLM.
Sunny Savita: Now, you can check out the open source LLM also. So, LLM Leaderboard, open source. Once you will write that, you will get all the open source LLM over here. It's not a paid one, actually, it is an open source one. So, you can get that also. Just a second, I think it would be there. Open LLM Leaderboard.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: It is not showing over in the model competitor.
Sunny Savita: It's showing runtime error, maybe they have… okay, there would be a different link, but yeah. Likewise, guys, what we can do, we can go through with the different, different LLMs, right? We can check what all LLM is leading.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys. Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: We do have hands-on concept. Yes, whatever is required, we'll do now, with there, right?
Sunny Savita: Whatever hands-on is required, we'll do that.
Sunny Savita: So, are we also going to be cover langraf? Yes, Arthi, we are going to be cover the Langraf, huh?
Sunny Savita: Are you not, checking with the syllabus and all?
Sunny Savita: We are going to recover that. What is a MTEV? MTB, actually, it's a leaderboard for the embedding.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: It is a specific leaderboard for the embedding models only.
Sunny Savita: Massive Text Embedding Benchmark, something like this. That's a full form of it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great guys, so I hope you understood everything now.
Sunny Savita: In the next class, we'll continue from here. I will explain to you about the multimodal LLM and all, everything. Means, I'll give you the quick walkthrough, that whatever thing we have.
Sunny Savita: And, finally, we'll explore the different, different, leaderboard, on which basis they are going to be, evaluate the model and all, and we'll do some inferencing, okay? We'll come back to the practical. So, from next class onwards, guys, what we are going to do, we are going to be is start with the practical, okay?
Sunny Savita: And, yes, we'll definitely understand the language. That is one… sorry, that is one of the important concepts of this entire course.
Sunny Savita: So we'll understand the language chain, okay?
Sunny Savita: What's the difference between Langchen, Langgraph, and Langesmith? Langchen is a parent one, which is having almost all the things for the LLM-related application. Langgraph is specifically for the agentic flow, for the orchestration. Langesmith for the
Sunny Savita: dashboard, okay? For the KPIs dashboard, for that, they have a specific platform, that's a Lang as well. Got it, Rajanesh?
Sunny Savita: So, by diffusion has not mentioned the syllabus, are they not important? No, it is not important.
Sunny Savita: diffusion model is not important. If we are unable to understand the high-level process, then it is fine, okay?
Sunny Savita: Because transformer is one of the part of the diffusion, of the latest diffusion model. Otherwise, it was having some other different concept, like variational autoencoder, UNET, which is again connected to the CNNs, right?
Sunny Savita: Transformer architecture we can use anywhere. It's a universal architecture. In the diffusion… in the diffuser process also, we can use the transformer architecture, okay? But, yeah, directly… directly diffusion, it is not important, right?
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, so… I think, we can conclude the session.
Sunny Savita: Thank you guys, thank you for the joining. I'll see you in the next class, be there with me in the next class.
Sunny Savita: And, yeah, thank you very much. If you have any doubt, be here. I'll take the doubt now. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Putting a timer for 3 minutes, guys, I'll take the doubt after 3 minutes.
Sunny Savita: Thank you very much.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I will upload the notes, okay? I'll upload the notes, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, let's start with the doubt session. If you have any doubt, you can raise your hand, I'll solve that.
Sunny Savita: So, please, you know, GitHub and search people. Yes, Madhu, after the session, I will post that, okay? So, I will keep all the link at the single place. I will inform you in the community chat, right?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys. Please raise the hand if you have any sort of a doubt, I'll be clarifying that.
Sunny Savita: Let me look into the committee chat. Something is going on there.
Sunny Savita: Okay, just a second, I'm giving you the access,
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Bhagwandas, what's your doubt? Please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, right, so you said that, right?
Sunny Savita: about the practical, okay? from next class onwards, we are going to be start that, right?
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, it's wonderful. Yeah, the reason…
Sunny Savita: Guys, don't fight in the comedy chat, right? So we'll start the theory and all everything, from next class onward. Just leave the class to me, guys, I will be covering everything, okay? Just believe on me, don't predict anything by yourself.
Sunny Savita: We'll cover as much as practical and all, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Bhaguan does, please.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, right. So, post this one, right? Post didn't break, the session was basically…
Sunny Savita: Just a second, let me check with my headphones.
bhagwandas armani: Am I out of it?
Sunny Savita: I cannot hear you. Just a second, just a second, sir.
bhagwandas armani: I'm here to…
Sunny Savita: Guys, anyone can hear to, Bhagwanda, because I cannot hear.
Sunny Savita: Can you please speak again? .
bhagwandas armani: Hello.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, now you are audible. Yeah, please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: Can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, I can hear you.
bhagwandas armani: Hello.
Sunny Savita: Yes, I can hear you. Please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: Hello?
Sunny Savita: Yes, you are audible. Please go ahead, Bhagwandas. Guys, you can hear me, right? Sunil, Saroj, anyone is there, please go ahead.
Sunny Savita: Hello?
bhagwandas armani: Hello?
sunil: Oh, yeah, I can, I can hear you in Bhagranathas. Can I go.
Sunny Savita: Sunil, can you hear me? Sunil, can you hear me?
sunil: Yes, yes, I can hear you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, yeah, Surah, you go ahead, please. Yeah, Bhagwandas, please check with your headphone, I think your headphone is not correct, so…
sunil: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Sudil, until you can go.
sunil: Yeah, yeah, Sunny, yesterday's session, I guess, when you…
bhagwandas armani: Can you hear me now?
Sunny Savita: Yes, I can hear you, Bhagwandas. Please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, so post-deter session, the session was good, okay? I mean, it was more constructive when learning how the model works it, so maybe we can keep that way, because, I mean, I'm also an instructor at my ABC1 automation as well, so at that.
bhagwandas armani: So, too much theory also sometimes doesn't really, I mean, get into the brain at the whatever, I mean…
bhagwandas armani: separate functionality, so maybe you can break something, maybe going forward, some theory, some practical, some theory, some practical, so that it will be more constructive to maybe understand that's what I just wanted to present.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Sudil. Definitely, from next class onwards, we are going to be start that, okay? Don't worry.
bhagwandas armani: some intermittent practical theory, people will get more, actually, because they are.
Sunny Savita: No, no, actually, see, for this particular module, there is no such practicals, okay? The practical, continuous practical will be started from the next module onwards, okay? You will see the continuous practical. So, that's what I'm saying, guys, don't be in hurry.
Sunny Savita: Just be patient, everything will come, okay? You will see the complete practical or not, don't worry, right?
bhagwandas armani: Sure, okay.
bhagwandas armani: raise the hand, because maybe there would be some practical advice to you. That is fine.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Sunil, you can go ahead.
sunil: Yeah, first question, like, compared to yesterday's session, when I understand about the cross-tation layer, so there, in the concept of QKV, so Q and K, like, we do an encoder, and then we calculate, some weight or value, I mean, the dot product.
sunil: function, and then… We get some weight.
sunil: And then values, we do a decoder, what I understand. It goes as an output of decoder, input of the decoder, and then we get the value as an output.
sunil: Today's session, like, we have encoder and decoderation model.
sunil: Ruchi, could you…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, Sonic. Yes, sir.
sunil: So, in, like, encoder-based model, or, or only decoder-based model, then, where this cross-attention layer, like, come to the picture, if I were.
Sunny Savita: Cross-attention, cross-attention will come at the same place, okay? Actually, what happened? Whenever we pass the data to the decoder, okay, we pass both input and output as a single prompt to that.
Sunny Savita: Single prompt to that piece.
Sunny Savita: Let's say we have an image, and we have a text.
Sunny Savita: So both we are passing as a single prompt.
Sunny Savita: So, cross-encoder, what cross-encoder is doing? It is doing the same thing, actually. It is taking input. From the input, it is, finding out the key, and from the output, it is finding out the, this one, query and the value, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, input and output, actually, it is part of the single prong, which is being passed to the decoder, and that thing is being segregated in the cross encoder, actually. Got it?
sunil: So, this is separate… if you just… if you go with the architect… the transformer architecture, there we can see encoder and decoder is, like, combined, and there are the model, like, you talked about, like, a T5.
sunil: encoder-decoder-based model. If you just talk about decoder-based model, then they… how they do this QKV calc… I mean, calculation?
sunil: Itself in… That would happen in recorder only, right? In… Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, it happened in the decoder only, nothing comes from the encoder.
sunil: Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The behavior of the decoder is just to generate something continuously. It works in a GPT fashion, autoregressive fashion. Okay, so whatever we are passing, it will only predict the next text, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
sunil: So, how they are, like, UKV is, like, calculated, like…
Sunny Savita: way, in the same way it is being calculated. Everything is a token only, no?
sunil: paid, paid.
Sunny Savita: Everything is a token, so embedding would be there, and with respect to that embedding, it will multiply with a QKV matrix, query key and value vector would be there, and the same process will happen.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
sunil: Okay, and when you say the next token prediction.
Sunny Savita: and…
sunil: Generation and prediction, like, right. So, in case of, encoder, it, like, predict.
sunil: And in care of decoder, it generates. But here, meaning is same, right? If I'm going to, let's say, my name is, like, your name, yeah, it says Sunil, that means it's a prediction.
sunil: And… or it can also generate, like.
sunil: So, Neil, right? It's a both… both thing, right? It's…
sunil: Or what is the difference in prediction and generation? Generation and generation is thinking something new and generating, but in terms of mathematics.
sunil: What is the difference?
Sunny Savita: Mathematics-wise, also, it's going to be the same. See, let me explain you that, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So…
Sunny Savita: let's say I'm going to… Open the sea.
Sunny Savita: This is the end decoder site, right?
Sunny Savita: So this part only is being used, this one, right-hand side part.
Sunny Savita: Now, what happens over here?
Sunny Savita: let's say… First, you will train this model. This model.
Sunny Savita: This, this part only.
Sunny Savita: So everything you are passing over here in the form of prompts.
Sunny Savita: let's say your input and output is what? Let's say here is the input and output.
Sunny Savita: You can write anything. AI.
Sunny Savita: is… a future.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then let's say, hear what we bought, yes.
Sunny Savita: This is correct. This is output.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what… at the time of the training, what will happen? This complete sentence will be combined.
sunil: Created.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my input.
Sunny Savita: And this is my output.
Sunny Savita: This complete sentence will be combined, and it will be passed over here.
Sunny Savita: AI is a… Future.
sunil: No.
Sunny Savita: Yes, this is correct.
sunil: Yep.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So what does this tell me? It is a sentence only, no?
sunil: Right, right, yeah.
Sunny Savita: It will generate the embedding.
sunil: 12%.
Sunny Savita: What will be converted into the token?
sunil: Okay, number…
Sunny Savita: In data embedding, then masked self-attention will be performed over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Then add and norm will be there.
Sunny Savita: Now, in most of the… in most of the, basically, diagram, the GPT… this decoder-based diagram, you will not be able to find out this cross-encoder.
Sunny Savita: This cross-encoder concept, actually, it comes into the…
Sunny Savita: This cross-encoder, actually, this particular concept comes under the… in the heterogeneous data. Heterogeneous data means what? Let's say input is an image.
Sunny Savita: And the output is a text.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Or, the input is a text, and the output is an image.
Sunny Savita: At that time, this cross encoder comes.
Sunny Savita: Otherwise, this work as a normal attention, right? So, means this block, basically, will not be exist. Only mass self-attention would be there, then feed-forward neural network will be there, and the output probability will be there.
Sunny Savita: Right? Output probability will be what? Output probability, basically, of the next token. Next token means AI is a future, yes, this is correct. Means, yes, this is correct. This is my output now. So, output probability, this probability, which word will be the next word? Okay? Which word will be the next word? So, that output probability, the next token prediction will be.
Sunny Savita: sorry, next token probability will be calculated. So, every process will be same, okay? We just have to get this input, embedding would be same, position encoding will be same.
Sunny Savita: this mask itself attention would be there, add and normalization would be there, then feed-forward network would be there, and then the next word probability will be calculated. That's it. Likewise, the trending is happening over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So just explore this research paper, as I told you, you know, GPT-1, there you will get this entire crux, okay?
sunil: So, this, homogeneous and heterogeneous, when you talk about, text translation, so that is also heterogeneous, or…
sunil: Because one text… both are text, but one in the…
Sunny Savita: genius, actually, means both are text, but it is in a different language. So, there will be the… this cross encoder, okay? Cross encoder comes basically when we have a two different type of inputs.
Sunny Savita: Different type of input. Cross means what? Cross means what?
Sunny Savita: See, if you will see the application of the cross encoder in front of you only I'm writing.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: See, if I'm going to open the Google, and see, here I'm writing.
Sunny Savita: gross.
Sunny Savita: End quota.
Sunny Savita: applications.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, you will get over here itself.
Sunny Savita: secret.
Sunny Savita: Question answering, customer support, legal and scientific, customer detection.
Sunny Savita: Here you can see, re-ranking in a rag.
Sunny Savita: This is also an example, semantics are similarity, question answering, testament classification, leaving a scientific review, and duplicate question retraction. Actually, this image pairing we were talking about, no, right?
Sunny Savita: So that image pairing also is a application of the cross attention, okay?
Sunny Savita: In that task also, it is being used. So whenever we have two different type of input and output, there this cross attention is being used.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: You can check out more about it, you will get it, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just go through the different, different resources, you will get that part.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
sunil: Yeah, yeah, got it. Yeah, Sunny, one more thing. I'm a non-technical guy, but,
sunil: Yeah, from last, I guess, one month when, though even I have missed a few classes, but, I would say when I started liking this…
sunil: Concept and all.
sunil: And meanwhile, even I realized a lot of… lot of things managed to…
sunil: we learn, especially the prerequisites for natural language processing, even though those I have started, but those are little complex, I have…
sunil: I'm explaining nicely, but it's difficult to understand, I guess. Maybe multiple times I need to watch. But, like I said, I'm a non-technical person, so though I wanted to move in the AI side now.
sunil: I need… maybe I need some, guidance, or, like, how should I, like, proceed so that I can switch into that direction? Because I see AI is the future. I want to move into that job now, I mean, not as a…
sunil: let's say, developer, but most probably as a product manager or other role, I can take it.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, see, so what you can do, you can, learn as much as from this bootcamp, okay? Just spend 2 to 3 months over here.
Sunny Savita: you will get some confidence in LLM application and some practical hands-on and all. Along with that, understand how to use the AI in your day-to-day work, how to use the co-pilot for the coding, application building.
Sunny Savita: Okay, for the techno-functional role, right?
Sunny Savita: In the 3-4 months only, you will get some confidence, and then you can switch from non-technical to this AI job role. Got it?
sunil: Okay, okay, yeah, I'll… I'll do next two months, then maybe I'll start applying, and then I'll… I'll… wanted to connect with you separately, so that you can give some guidance to Craig.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah.
sunil: to you.
Sunny Savita: Sure, son.
sunil: Thank you very much, Tania.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank…
Ruchi S: I… Hi, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Yaruchi, yeah.
Ruchi S: Okay, so you were talking about the denoising part, so, like, in this last section.
Ruchi S: Can you tell me what it was exactly? Because I read it in BART document, I think research paper when you opened it, so I did not understand if it is part of the early stage models, or it is also part of the current ones, the modern ones.
Sunny Savita: So, denoising, actually, it is a process where everything is not going to be generated in a single shot, right?
Sunny Savita: So, in the denoising, what happened? So, diffusion, actually, it's one kind of generation process, okay? So, how it generate? It generates, some random noise, right? And step by step, that noise is going to be denoise, means we are getting a final image.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, let's say what I can do, I can give you some example. Let's say you are learning something, right? So, as of now, that is a random learning. Then you are structuring that by revising those concepts.
Sunny Savita: Then again, we are revising that, so again, it's going to be more structure, and then you are getting your final learning. So in the same concept, at the same concept, the diffusion model is working. The diffusion model is a generation process where it is generating a random noise, and in a step-by-step manner, it's going to be a denoise, okay, and then only you are getting a final image, video, or audio.
Sunny Savita: Now, the popular model of it is stable diffusion, stable diffusion 1.6, 2.x 3.x, and for the denoising concept, okay, the denoising, basically, earlier it was using the UNET. UNET, actually, it is a CNN-based architecture. UNET, VNET, it's a very famous architecture of the CNN, okay, Convolution Neural Network.
Sunny Savita: But nowadays, we have a transformer, so for this denoising concept, we can use a transformer concept also. So earlier, how was the process? So, we were having the, let's say, we are having the text.
Sunny Savita: Using the text, basically, some, image we have to be generated, right? So using the text, we are generating our images, means the image patch is being created using the clip or something other… with any other model. Then using the unit denoiser, we are going to be denoise that.
Sunny Savita: Then, using the variational auto-decoder, we are going to decode the denoise value, and then we are getting a final image.
Sunny Savita: But nowadays, what we have, we're talking about the, current, stable diffusion model, like 2.x, 3.x. So, instead of this, denoiser, unit denoiser, we can use the transformer denoiser, transformer-based denoiser also.
Sunny Savita: So that's a use of the transformer inside this entire, diffusion process. That's it, nothing else, okay? So in the next class, I can…
Ruchi S: Fusion is part of Transformers.
Sunny Savita: No, it is not part of the transformer.
Ruchi S: Okay.
Sunny Savita: But transformer could be part of the diffusion process.
Ruchi S: Oh, okay, fine. Yep.
Ruchi S: Yeah. Okay.
Ruchi S: And can I also know about CLIP? Like, are we, like, going ahead in another class with CLIP? Like, or it's just, like, done today?
Sunny Savita: CLIP is what? CLIP is very simple. If you will check out with the research paper, you will understand that. If you have a basic understanding of the
Sunny Savita: At least, training and all, okay? How the training and all being happened.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this, listen.
Ruchi S: Yeah, I can see it.
Sunny Savita: We are doing, see, inside the clip, we have peer data.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, what kind of pair we have?
Sunny Savita: We have an image.
Sunny Savita: And the text associated with that image, right? So let's say inside this image, we have one person.
Sunny Savita: So, some text, some caption will be associated with that.
Sunny Savita: So it is called?
Sunny Savita: Let's say I'm writing a caption.
Sunny Savita: Person is laughing, okay?
Sunny Savita: Person is?
Sunny Savita: Laughing. So this is the image, and here is the text that's associated with that. So on top of this particular data only, we are going to be train our model.
Sunny Savita: how we will train the model. So, we have a text.
Sunny Savita: This will go through the text encoder.
Sunny Savita: And we'll be getting this particular vector.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now we have an image. This will be going through the image encoder, and we are getting an image vector.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Now, what we are doing, this particular data, the image vector, and the text encoder, we are processing through the same pipeline.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are processing through the same pipeline.
Sunny Savita: Same transformer, basically, same transformer pipeline, okay? And then, at the end, we have… we will be having a learning. So, the learning, what kind of learning we are having? We have a learning, basically, so this caption, it is associated with this particular image. So if I'm searching anything using this particular caption, I'll be getting an image.
Sunny Savita: So this is what this clip is doing. It is training this text and image in a same space.
Sunny Savita: Text is being converted into the vector, image is being converted into the vector, and this data is being trained using the model. That's it.
Ruchi S: So, at the end, is there a comparison that's happening between these two? Or, like, that's how, you know, we are.
Sunny Savita: Comparison does not happen. In training, loss we calculate, actually, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: See, this concept, too, it takes time. If your fundamental skill here, you can catch this concept, but if not, then I think you will have to be, like, understand first the CNN, then, basically, you understood about the transformer and all. Then you will have to be… combine this entire knowledge.
Sunny Savita: And you will get it easily, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay.
Krishna, Bala: Sir, hi.
Krishna, Bala: Presidents of…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Krishna.
Krishna, Bala: Yeah, I have a, doubt regarding my role, actually, sir. So, I was transitioning from, you know,
Krishna, Bala: Java to, you know, Jinnea, actually.
Krishna, Bala: So, I see the roles recently posted for my… in my company, so it's asking, like, if you want to become an AML engineer.
Krishna, Bala: So, we should know more about the machine learning, green areas and everything, so… so, I should lend… I should lend the things to, you know, keep up, or to get a job in engineer, or, with the modern route for Vivan Krishnak. Is it, is it going to get the job, sir?
Sunny Savita: You are asking, machine learning is required or not, is it?
Krishna, Bala: Yeah, because, we are, we are seeing everything directly going to.
Sunny Savita: No, that's what, that's what I'm saying, no, sir? See…
Sunny Savita: Machine learning and deep learning is not required directly for the GenAI application.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Without that also, you can do it. You can build that. You can build the application. Once we will move to the application side, you will feel that it is not required.
Krishna, Bala: But you want to get a job, so, like, you want to get a job, they're asking machine learning, and .
Sunny Savita: They will not ask.
Krishna, Bala: Steven in…
Sunny Savita: the interview, if it is a generative AI-specific interview, they will not ask. I've given so many Gen AI-related interviews. In couple of… only in one and two interviews, let's say if I've given 10 interviews, in only 1 and 2 interviews, they've asked some basic question of the machine learning and all, that's it.
Sunny Savita: And if we are saying, we are not using it right now, if I forget, okay, if I haven't revised, if I haven't learned, that is also fine.
Sunny Savita: But in generative AI interview, you should be good with your generative AI concepts.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Krishna, Bala: But in job descriptions, it says clearly, familiar with, you know, SK…
Sunny Savita: So, in job description, they might mention, sir. In job description, they might mention, okay? But it is not always that they will ask this thing.
Sunny Savita: If anywhere you are seeing, then it is fine, you can still apply, okay, along with the Gen AI knowledge. But if you're still, like, you are worried about the MLNDL, then at least learn the MLNDL with a short prerequisite video you can cover within a week itself, okay?
Krishna, Bala: Okay, sir.
Sunny Savita: Yep.
Akshay Pisal: Hi, huh?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank you, Krishna.
Akshay Pisal: Hi, Sanislo? Can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure, please go ahead.
Akshay Pisal: First thing is, like, I want to appreciate, the way you're teaching us, like.
Akshay Pisal: I joined this a month ago.
Akshay Pisal: I lately joined this, but now I have just reached to the path we are on the line, we can say. I'm now learning with you as a pace.
Akshay Pisal: So, I have a quick question with you, which is, like, on… on learning with you, with the scale which you are… which we are running on a structure, right? You are running on a structure. So, is there anything which you think, like, we should do in, like, a…
Akshay Pisal: work which is, like, simultaneous, because we do Saturday, Sunday, and then 5 days are blank, like, as a student right now. So, for me, 5 days are blank, like, I… what I do is I try to…
Akshay Pisal: you know, find the things on YouTube which you thought, and then try to experiment it, something like that. But then, it becomes slightly, you know.
Akshay Pisal: YouTube is slightly vast. They… they don't teach you… for example, like, last Transformers, I tried to do a project based on Transformers, basic transformers, but that gets me more confusion towards what you have thought. So, is there anywhere what you think, like, I should do?
Akshay Pisal: Is there anything, any pattern which you suggest, like, whenever you teach, follow this, follow that, or…
Akshay Pisal: try to implement it. What do you say on that?
Sunny Savita: So, see, if you are, confused, so what you can do, see, you can stick with the live session only.
Sunny Savita: Right? Yes. And, let's say, I… see, I am teaching this, transformer theory, or, let's say this, multimode, sorry, this LLM, SLM, basics and all.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine-tuning. So you can cover that part only, you can, learn something onto that particular topic only, and whenever you are coming in a live class, okay, so that would be more strong.
Sunny Savita: Right? Whenever I'm teaching, right? So you will already have some understanding related to that topic. So, let's say, next week, I'm going to be teaching you about, the different LLM APIA, right? How to take it, how to access it for via Langchen and all. So you can explore something about that particular topic.
Sunny Savita: Correct. So whenever you will come in next class, your understanding will be a bit more stronger on the concrete, on top of that topic. Like, with that, you can understand the topic very…
Sunny Savita: Efficiently, okay, very clearly. So that pattern you can follow. Got it?
Akshay Pisal: this pattern can be followed, okay, okay. And second question is, like, there are… I'm slightly confused between roles. Like, you… you told me in past, I think, last week, or last to last week, you showed us an example, like, what AI engineer does and what
Akshay Pisal: deep learning engineer and data scientist does. So I'm slightly confused, like, the things which we are doing, they lie only in AI generative… Sorry, AI engineer person?
Akshay Pisal: Or, like, how should I… because my thinking is, like, for 6 months, when I'm learning, I'm gonna also apply for jobs.
Akshay Pisal: So, at a certain point, it's… Indian market, you know, sir, better well, that it's not easy that after 6 months of learning, and then we start, you know, applying jobs, then it'll take more 6 months to get an interview and stuff, and then it would be more advanced something came out. So, this is what my plan is. I'm currently applying also, and currently learning with you also.
Akshay Pisal: So, what do you think, like, which positions, this pattern which we have made for this, 6 months, what do you think which positions, like, properly gen AI-specific positions, or, any generative AI or AI engineer positions would be more… like, that's my algorithm, that should be my algorithm for application.
Akshay Pisal: This is my question, is what.
Sunny Savita: So you are a fresher now, right?
Akshay Pisal: I have worked there, I've worked in GIS earlier, a GIS data analyst, that is, like, the background.
Akshay Pisal: But I have completed my master's recently, but, you know, Indian education system, they don't teach us the current AI generation, they taught us regarding machine learning.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Akshay Pisal: old machine learning, NLPs, basically the things which are there in prerequisite.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so that's what I'm saying. See, the role and the designation actually differs company to company.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, there could be different, different designations, see? There could be directly AI engineer, generative AI Engineer, applied AI engineer, AI research engineer, okay? So, these are the common ones. You will get it, right?
Sunny Savita: Or sometime you will get it as a Gen AI developer, Agent AKI, Gen AI developer, Agent AKI, Gen AI engineer, okay? AI solution engineer. These kind of role will be there with respect to the AI in a different, different organization, right? But sometime you will get, like, that also. Data scientist.
Sunny Savita: machine learning engineer. So the work of the data scientist also, like, it… little bit comes into this genitive AI bucket also, right? So if you're going to be hired as a data scientist, MLE engineer, so along with the core data science work, you are going to be doing this Gen AI-related task also.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? So, if you're getting a post, designation, data scientist, MLE, in that case also, you can apply, you can go, because there also, you will find out some work related to the GenAI only. Getting my point?
Akshay Pisal: on it.
Sunny Savita: So, AIM, AI engineer, applied AI engineer, Generative AI engineer, AI researcher, Gen AI Developer, AgentKai Engineer, AIM, this kind of role. But if you are seeing MLE engineer, sorry, MLE, that is called Machine Learning Engineer, Data Scientist, you know, you can go for that. But see, in consulting, the role is different.
Sunny Savita: Right? So there, the role will be, like, associate, senior associate, or manager, senior manager, director, associate director.
Sunny Savita: In some other, like, company, right? Let's say you are going in the different company, let's say you're going in the banking, finance sector, or anyone, any other one.
Sunny Savita: there you will find out some other kind of role. So, they are giving you the SD consultant, senior consultant, senior engineer, system engineer, infrastructure engineer, right? In the AI team, there would be different position.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, just check, according to the company, that what designation they have, and…
Sunny Savita: like, what all degenixion they have related to the AI, basically, right? But these are the common roles which I told with respect to the AI. If you're going to be hired as a manager, senior associate, with this particular role also, you will be… you will be, like, posted anywhere else on any client as a Gen AI engineer.
Akshay Pisal: development side.
Sunny Savita: Development side only, correct. Development side only, you will be, basically, you will be posted, okay, from there as well.
Akshay Pisal: Yes, sir, yes.
Sunny Savita: just do some research on top of it. We stick with the Gen AI concepts only, and
Sunny Savita: If you have any doubt, then you can ask me, going forward, got it?
Akshay Pisal: one more thing, I don't know about the group, I never talk into group, because I don't know how it goes through, because there are a million peoples in the group, I don't know who are there, but to be honest, to be precise, this is my request, you can say, that the way you're teaching, more of theory and less of practical, that is more efficient for at least me, because
Akshay Pisal: This information is not there on YouTube, which you are giving, like, research papers, which is really appreciative, and we, I have a group of people who learn with me. Basically, we are from middle-aged background, where, on your videos, we are, like, 5-6 people learning together.
Akshay Pisal: So, these… for us, it is slightly more informative, because we have been through something, and now we are learning something new, because I don't know how many people there, some of them are… came through machine learning. For them, these concepts are, like, basics. For us, it is like…
Akshay Pisal: you're teaching a very good stuff, which is not there on internet, basically. As I said, I do research also, whatever you teach us. So, I would recommend you to go with the flow which you are doing, and you're doing an amazing job, that's my thing is, so please continue how you teach, more of theory and practical. I know you're gonna balance it somewhere.
Akshay Pisal: But I would recommend and request the same thing.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, sure, Akshay. Yeah, even I understand that, even I know, because I talk to so many people, okay? And you see, if I'm asking 200 people, 95% people agree with the same thing, right? 5 people could be here and there, right? And they write something, something. Okay, I understand that. That is not a case, okay?
Sunny Savita: So I'll go in in my flow only, and don't worry, we'll be learning like this only. Yeah, thank you.
Akshay Pisal: Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much for the night here.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Hi, Sunny. Hello?
Vijay K: Bye, honey.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Krish S: That's crucial.
Sunny Savita: Which…
Vijay K: Hi, Sunny, it's a quick question?
Sunny Savita: Vijay Krish, who is… who are you? Krish, you can go.
Vijay K: The turn.
Krish S: Okay, Ali. Okay, thank you, Sunani. Sunny, I have a very specific question, like,
Krish S: So, I am experimenting a little bit on the healthcare app.
Krish S: And right now, I'm using LLMs, but what I'm finding is a lot of these things are very probabilistic in nature, and things change, like, you know, when you ask different questions, you kind of get different output. But as you know, healthcare requires a very specific output.
Krish S: So, I'm kind of leaning towards creating my own model, trained on some specific data.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Krish S: So, I'm a little bit confused whether should I take the ML route, or, like, you know, kind of go ahead and develop my small language model, like, what would be your advice? And if you have to develop your own model, like, what would be the right way to go about doing it?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, that's what I'm saying, no? If you're doing this experiment, right, where you are developing your model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, using any pre-trained LLM model, then you can go with the SLM, right? So I, I, refer you one video, right? Okay. SLM, SLM guide from my YouTube. Just, just check that. Your, 99% doubt is going to be clear related to that.
Sunny Savita: And, even after that video, I've shown the practical as well, so just take the same practical, do some small POC with your subset of your data, and then test it out, okay? Do some inferencing. So, if you are willing to train your own model, your own large language model with some healthcare-specific data, I think.
Sunny Savita: Slm could be a good one in that case, okay?
Krish S: Right, right. Okay, cool. Alright, thanks, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Dink.
Sunny Savita: Guys, give me a moment, okay? Taking 2 minutes of water break.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, again, we can start, so… who is there?
Sunny Savita: Rajneesh… Mohan?
Sunny Savita: Akash, guys, anyone is there? Please go ahead.
Rajnish Sharma: Hello.
Rajnish Sharma: Can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can hear you.
Rajnish Sharma: So, I'd like to thank you for leaving.
Rajnish Sharma: Certain mutual session.
Rajnish Sharma: So,
Rajnish Sharma: just, wanted to understand, so already, I think, people had already asked this similar question, so let me put my push in, but I got the answer, so,
Rajnish Sharma: about the, future, like, about the future of this, for this course, right? How are you going to, like, present?
Rajnish Sharma: transition to different, role, actually. So, currently, you know, into the Java profile, so, I don't, like, transition in the sense, like, the…
Rajnish Sharma: the future would be, like, the application, the enterprise application that I'm building, right?
Rajnish Sharma: currently working on building, right? I'll be just integrating that particular… the LLMs, right? So, already, you know, Spring AI, we have a Spring AI where we are already building it, so I'm trying to understand, you know, the graph and lang speed and all that thing.
Rajnish Sharma: So, nope.
Rajnish Sharma: initially, what you got, this… so many details, right? I'm actually getting confused how to, grab it, all, all the things, like, so, can you, can you give me a brief idea, like, how… what are the important things that we should know,
Rajnish Sharma: So, from transformer point of view, another thing, right? And what are the things that I should actually focus, and what are the things I should know? So…
Rajnish Sharma: Now, there is so much noise, right? So many details are there, so it becomes very difficult, actually, to grab everything. So, can you give some sort of idea, like, where to put the much focus, and where I should keep the minimum, like, okay, this good to know kind of thing?
Sunny Savita: So, see, I can explain you that, just a sec.
Sunny Savita: So you are from Java background, right?
Rajnish Sharma: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: So, see, if we talk about the Java, no?
Sunny Savita: what comes in the Java.
Sunny Savita: let's say, if I am a Java person, so I will be learning Java.
Sunny Savita: From there, I'll be going to the advanced Java, correct?
Rajnish Sharma: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: There I'm going to create a servlet and all, okay?
Sunny Savita: JSP. Then, I'll be learning the spring.
Sunny Savita: Then I'll be learning about, let's say, Hibernet, Okay.
Sunny Savita: Then, basically, from the DevOps side, I'm learning some DevOps, microservices, and all.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And then, basically.
Sunny Savita: I can deploy the application, I can create a full-fledged production-ready application, right? So this is, like, one of the paths for the Java learner, okay? Now, if they are going to be integrate the AI, so where the AI comes.
Sunny Savita: AI comes over here, as you tell, as you… as you said, we have the spring, right?
Sunny Savita: So, we have our Spring AI.
Sunny Savita: Correct?
Sunny Savita: And using that, what we can do, see, what this Spring AI is providing to you.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the Spring AI, right? What it is providing to you? It is providing you the LLM integration.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's provide you, basically, some vector DBXs.
Sunny Savita: some tool calling.
Sunny Savita: Correct?
Sunny Savita: So, this concept, basically, you can utilize for the RAG-based… inside the RAG-based application, inside the agent tech application, okay? And that AI-related application, you can
Sunny Savita: Deploy, okay? This is where I got the agent base. Getting my point. Now, see, whatever topic I'm talking about, this is the fundamental of the generative AI.
Sunny Savita: Of the AI, basically, right? So, whatever you are learning, you are doing, it is more on the application side.
Sunny Savita: Right? If we're talking about a generative AI, see.
Sunny Savita: Let's say we have a AI. This is a complete world.
Sunny Savita: Now, under this AI, what comes? ML comes.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Under the symbol, One specific type of AI comes, DL. Then, under the DI, there's Jen AI comes.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then under the Gen AI, this Agent AKI comes, right? Agent AKI.
Sunny Savita: So this is a complete hierarchy of the AI, right? Now, if we're talking about the AI, so what is the dominating language for that? The AI? That is Python.
Sunny Savita: We develop everything in our Python.
Sunny Savita: Okay, let's say we're talking about a gen AI. So, Lang Chin is a…
Sunny Savita: Langchain is what? Langchain is a framework which we use for developing the GenAir-related application. Agent AKI, again, Langchain, and some extent of the langchain, that is a Langraph. So, ESUs are a framework, and this all framework, actually, it is written in a Python.
Sunny Savita: Because jabiya me ahika baat karte hain, hum Python ka hi baath karte hain. We always talk about the Python.
Sunny Savita: Right? Because Java is separate branch, application bharani ke liye.
Sunny Savita: Java ik language hai.
Sunny Savita: Right? Usme Advanced Java parte hai, uska framework spring parte hain, hypernet parte hai, DevOps parte hain application banate hai. Like in AISN AI. AI is more on the mathematical side. Us mathematics ko kese implement kiagaya hai, they have implemented using the Python.
Sunny Savita: So, AI is a pure mathematical thing, which is implemented using the Python. There is certain framework in the Python, like Langchain, Langgraph, which is helping us to create RAG or agentic-based application, which is a GenAI-specific application, and that application we are going to be deploying.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So, you are learning this Java. Java is a language. Inside that, Spring is a framework. Spring AI is an extension of that. With that, what you are doing, you are just going to be create this Gen AI or agentic AI-specific application. Means, it is just providing you the API support for creating an application. That's it.
Sunny Savita: But this is a… core AI, which is a complete mathematical thing.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, AI hammara kiay, sorry, mathematics equations. Jisko Python meh code kartia hai, certain framework banadi ga hai, uske help seam application banar hai hai. Voi support, bilkul bot, chhote se extension mein matap Java mein bhi didia gayah hai.
Sunny Savita: voicepring AI or other firmware, ja pe aapse, API integrate kar pa y vector database access karpai, aurik application banapai, you know?
Sunny Savita: Samajaya. Toh…
Rajnish Sharma: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fine.
Sunny Savita: Toh, Python is not an AI.
Rajnish Sharma: nature.
Sunny Savita: Java is not technical.
Rajnish Sharma: You'll have nit.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Rajnish Sharma: It will be, like, creating agents, rag, yay yoga, na?
Sunny Savita: jo Python ka support na hai ko is very huge.
Sunny Savita: desktop application, web application, bane huhe.
Sunny Savita: toh, till some extent, a community un specific provider na, Java may support available karate, right? We can jo actual applications bante hain, AIK wo Python mehi bante hain. Meinh kahi sari apne enterprise application deki Java se aur baki sa language migrate ki jar hain Python mein.
Sunny Savita: Java mein, actually.
Rajnish Sharma: No thanks.
Sunny Savita: But at the end, job application banaienge, or RAG or agent basically banaynege.
Sunny Savita: or till some extent, Java may be banasakt hai, abih Archkal, okay?
Rajnish Sharma: So, Spring AI is Avito, Bachedara, Nikla, I think most probably unable to support Java there. You get, 60-70% your enterprise population one now, right? That is based on either Java or .NET.
Rajnish Sharma: This is Java highest number. You know.
Sunny Savita: Actually, mein language Voi the keloh voice, job development world may jate thee, jawaii sichte the mein ko jawa sika hua, college mein pura 4th year tak, lekin, actually, data science nepython ko jada famous kartia.
Sunny Savita: Tokyo.
Rajnish Sharma: You don'.
Sunny Savita: hitu vei Python.
Sunny Savita: But yeah, it is just famous because of the AI only, that's it.
Rajnish Sharma: application, mainframe mein banana legacy application bana ho, right? Rusko Python mein lejana, I think, ek chota sakaam karangle, the corporate mein, you have a lot of.
Sunny Savita: mainframe ka application ko Python me convert kya, mer ko patay kitne typical tio videos mein.
Rajnish Sharma: Java .
Sunny Savita: language keeper hotay, unka.
Sunny Savita: I seen that in a gold mine, actually. I had one of the projects over there. So, mother… Todd.
Rajnish Sharma: anything scared me.
Sunny Savita: That kind of, like, abstraction also I have seen.
Sunny Savita: And, yeah, see, if we are doing that, that is a challenging, but we can do at the end. So, method we suggest karun aapko ver AI pattern to Python pehada focus karoo, rather this Java, okay?
Rajnish Sharma: 8 pink of… Welcome.
Rajnish Sharma: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, any more doubt, guys?
Akash Bhalshankar: Hi, Sydney, I am Agosh.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Akash.
Akash Bhalshankar: It's, the… the… my co… my question is the same as, the person asked before. So, I have 2 years of experience, and I have keen interest in this Gen AI.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Akash Bhalshankar: agent AKI experience, but this one, but my experiences comes under the… far into the Java itself, and the Spring Boot. Like, I'm currently working on the
Akash Bhalshankar: CTL provost is…
Akash Bhalshankar: So, I just want to switch into this. So, same question again coming here. So, do I, like, do I continue with Java, or like it is required to learn Python and switch there again?
Sunny Savita: So, for AI, learn Python, because whatever fresh application you will create, for any AI application, you will do most of the coding in a Python itself, okay?
Akash Bhalshankar: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Akash Bhalshankar: Okay, Saeed. Oh, sorry, Sahi, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank goodness.
Mohan: Hi, Sami.
Sunny Savita: Yamahan.
Mohan: So, I have a question like that,
Mohan: I… is that possible for me? Like, I just want to…
Mohan: creative on, I want to run that any small SLM or any open source model in the local.
Mohan: local, I mean to say, like, on-prem, like our own Kubernetes infrastructure, where I just need to, just read the text and summarize it, or just need to know the intent that whatever is written in the, you know, text. Just, like, very small, low-level reasoning I need to do, okay?
Mohan: And not very complex reasoning, so that what is happening can, you know, avoid these, you know, the paid, APIs, like,
Mohan: GPT, GPT OpenAPI, or the Cloud API. So, is that possible? If I need to do then, what kind… what steps or what things I needed, or how should I approach, so that I can run any open source small model, and can just do small.
Mohan: I didn't.
Sunny Savita: So, see, infrastructure setup you can do.
Sunny Savita: I think you can do it, but the code-wise, basically, just do one thing. I shown you… I, referred that one video, right? One of my videos of the SLM. There, I share the code and all everything, right? So just, create one in a small server, and, just run that entire code over there. I would suggest to you AWS SageMaker.
Sunny Savita: you can, do it over there, you can train your model, and just expose it as an API over the Sage… from the SageMaker, and then consume it in a local, okay? You can do it,
Sunny Savita: You can do it, actually, using the Lambda and the Amazon API, right? API Gateway. So that kind of application you can create as of now, just for the small POC. Got it?
Mohan: Mmm.
Mohan: Okay, okay. So, the video, I think you were… did you share that link in the group chat, or…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, just check, just search Sunny Savita SLM, you will get that, okay?
Mohan: Okay, sure, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: But the data should be good if you are going to be, like, if you wanted to generate some fruitful result, okay? So just focus on the data first.
Sunny Savita: Data should be, like, good enough, and the structure one also. Then train your model, okay? SLM model.
Mohan: Oh, do I need to train the model? Cannot I use some only pre-trained model, where I just, you know, based upon the sentence or the text I provide.
Sunny Savita: It will work, it will not work, depends, sir, your data, right? So, for general purpose question, it might work, but for the specific question, it might hallucinate, so better fine-tune it, okay?
Mohan: Okay, okay, sure, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, any more having… any more person having doubt,
Sunny Savita: Ramesh, do you have any doubt?
Ramesh: Yes, Sunny. So, in a similar context, I'm a Java developer. So, in my company, I got the opportunity to work in the Python, and also
Ramesh: the clip embedding slot you're discussing, right? So, that's an application called semantic search and hybrid search.
Ramesh: Where I'm using these models and also LLM, and also some models like spaCy and, entity recognition models.
Ramesh: So, my question, right, if you want to…
Ramesh: I want to give to the interviews for the different companies, so I have an understanding of the embeddings and a basic understanding of,
Ramesh: What's the track and everything. I mean, based on understanding. Coming to the basics, right, I know the transformer, now I got to understand, based on your, lectures, I got to understand the trans… So, I see when I, when I want to give the interviews, I see a lot of things, like grade and post, different types of algorithms.
Ramesh: So, do I… do I really require those algorithms in enterings? Because if you see the inter… if I see there are a lot of algorithms in the… for machine learning when I start learning the machine learning.
Ramesh: at what… I mean, if I start giving the interviews, or if I want to give the interviews. So, what level of questions they will ask, and, can you give some…
Sunny Savita: Interview question, it's a very subjective thing, sir, okay? So, I would suggest you…
Ramesh: topics, I'm saying, when I say interview questions, right? All this algorithms still required for generative AI also?
Sunny Savita: No, not every time, sir. I would say, 9 times out of 10, it is not required.
Ramesh: Okay.
Ramesh: Yeah. So, mostly the interviews will be covering the transformers, architecture, or…
Sunny Savita: Correct.
Ramesh: Frank, what are the different models?
Ramesh: Correct. And agent decays, so these will… these things will be covered, right?
Sunny Savita: Yes.
Ramesh: And it's a developer?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, yes, correct. One or two interviews could be exception, but yeah, in most of the interview, again, I'm saying in 80-90% interview, they will not ask it, okay?
Ramesh: Okay.
Ramesh: Yeah. So, what is the experience I'm having, if I can be able to develop some RAG application and, at least.
Sunny Savita: mate.
Ramesh: Right? So I will get some confidence, and I start giving interviews, right?
Sunny Savita: At least, develop some application first, just by seeing this, tutorial, okay, project and all. Then mention at least one to one and a half year of experience in your resume also, okay?
Ramesh: Sure thing.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Ramesh: I mean, what I'm currently, I'm doing application hybrid, sir, so I can mention that as RAG application also, I can convert, that, like, chart board.
Sunny Savita: Wait a minute.
Ramesh: User can search with the phrases, and I will return some images based on its content, or based on its repo. So…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, that type of application you can mention, it is a good one.
Ramesh: Yes.
Sunny Savita: Boom.
Ramesh: Thanks, Amy.
Sunny Savita: Thank yous.
Sunny Savita: Ya, yani, right?
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: So…
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Danny.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: First of all, your classes have been really helpful, sir. I've been listening from day one every weekend.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: And apart from that, I just have one simple question. So, I'm a 2024 passed-out college student, and currently I'm working, and it's been almost one and a half year in corporate.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: So, I'm currently working in Python backend with AI itself.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: So, the thing is, in my college, I was mainly focused in, machine learning.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: So… Actually, I did not get to work in machine learning in corporate.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Whereas I was very interested in ML. So recently, I was considering doing MTech in AI and ML, but it was more, more related to ML and less about AI.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: So, I wanted to ask you, Ki, what is the future of ML and job profiles now, and is it worth doing Masters at this stage?
Sunny Savita: So, ML role, basically, see, in ML, what we were doing, we were training the model from scratch, right?
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: For what?
Sunny Savita: For the, supervisor…
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: business credit.
Sunny Savita: and the classification-related task, right? So those tasks we can easily do using the prompting only.
Sunny Savita: Correction?
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: true.
Sunny Savita: If we have any sort of a data. So, those tasks, definitely it is replaced by the LLM model. So, in most of the LLM tasks, we don't require the machine learning-based model. We can do it directly from the LLM model, which is a general purpose model. That's the first thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I'm talking about ML, so ML is not a lone one. There are so many things in the ML. A time series also comes, right? Feature engineering also comes, right? EDA and all. So those things will be there. If we have any sort of a data, we'll have to go through with a certain level of feature engineering, evaluation.
Sunny Savita: And all, but yeah, model-wise, we can replace from the LLM itself. Time series, again, it would be same, but yeah, again, we can utilize some latest model, state-of-art model for the time series also. So yeah, basics is… would be there, if we're talking about the machine learning, but yeah, practical-wise, everything will be replaced by the large language model. Got it?
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Yes, yes.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: But sir, at this point, is it doing… is it worth doing MTech in AI and ML?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, see, if, if you have an academic, right, so…
Sunny Savita: what I have seen, definitely it help in a career. It helps us in a career, right? So, if you're doing AmTech, Masters, right? If you're doing it from the correct college, with the correct intention, and if you're putting your good efforts, right? So, definitely, you're gonna place in a good company. There is no harm in that, right? There is no, like, there is a, like,
Sunny Savita: I've seen many cases, okay? But on the other hand, experience is one of the key, right? So, there is one person.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Cool.
Sunny Savita: who is having a good academics, who has completed their P-Tech, their MTech from the good college, he could place in a good company, right? There is no doubt in that. But on the other hand, if anyone haven't do that, any MTech, any master.
Sunny Savita: He's just relying on their experience. That person could be… place themselves in a good company, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, both are true, means, if you are willing to do that, if you wanted to add some academic inside your profile, right, if you have a time, basically, right now, right, if you're thinking, okay, I can do it, I can go for 2 years of MTAC, or 1 year of MTAC,
Sunny Savita: Okay, if you're willing to add that academic inside your resume, go ahead with that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Actually, there is no harm in that, and even after that, you will… you might get a good opportunity. Because many companies, basically, they're giving up good roles, the higher role, based on the, based on this, basically MTech or Master as well.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And, yeah, on the other hand, experience is also meta.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: True, true. Actually, the only thing is,
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: I wanted to project myself as an AI ML engineer, not just an AI engineer.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: And ML has been, very dear to me because I learned it myself in college.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: But now, yes.
Sunny Savita: See, just go with the role, basically, which is being offered by the company, right? If you're going in a Tier 1 company, like NVIDIA, Walmart, let's say you're going in a Google, right? So they have a different designation name for the AIML and all, right? So you might get a MLE, AI researcher, Applied AI Engineer, that kind of role they are providing.
Sunny Savita: So, I would suggest you focus on the concept, give the interview… give the interviewer different, different company for the different, different role with the same concept.
Sunny Savita: wherever you are selecting, then, yeah, I think that would be great, right? So, don't quote yourself as an AI ML engineer. Go with the, go with your knowledge, with that genitive AI and the ML knowledge. Give the interview for the different AI-related role, whether it could be AI engineer.
Sunny Savita: AI, applied AI engineer, MLE engineer, Data Science with AI engineer, something like that, okay? But don't quote anything by yourself, got it?
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: True, true, definitely.
GEYANI LINGAMALLU: Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, think.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I think we are done with the doubts.
Sunny Savita: So… yeah. I'll connect in the next class then. Thank you guys, bye, take care.
Sunny Savita: Good night, please.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Vishnu? I said, no, I forwarded that to my team, we'll check, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Veer Shaker… Veer, yeah, Veer, tell me, what's your doubt?
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, thank you, Sunny. So, I raised my hand, yeah. Let me quickly, come to the question. So, I heard about Langchain, Langsmith, and Langroff, so…
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: These are open source frameworks, and can we deploy them onto the cloud? I mean, these are open source, and we can install the same PIP or UV. So, what is the key role being played by these cloud providers in this AI generative AI era? So, that is what I would like to understand. That is my first question.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Yes, cloud provider services like Petrock, Cloud Foundry, right? So, it's being provided by the, different cloud, right? Different cloud provider, okay? So, via Langchen also, you can utilize that.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, so we can make, definitely, call to OpenAI, or else even these proprietary, models being offered by various cloud providers. Oh.
Sunny Savita: Even via Langchen also, you can do that. Langchen is just a wrapper on top of everything.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: So, insulin…
Sunny Savita: I can clarify that thing.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, yeah, unified framework. I have gone through the documentation, in fact, I'm a data engineer, having 10 years experience on this, Hadoop ecosystem and Azure Data Engineering stack.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: I would like to enhance my skill to, you know, on Azure platform itself. AI Foundry also. I've been going through this documentation, Microsoft official documentation for upskilling myself, besides your sessions.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, so exactly, when we want to productionize this, Langchain, Langrof, definitely we need some infrastructure.
Sunny Savita: So is it just a… see, it is just a module like the other module, okay? There is no such, such thing, like, we have to host it, like, any big module, no, no. With simple command, with a paper UV, we can install it in any, at any server in any environment, and it is very easy to use, okay?
Sunny Savita: So they are already giving us a LangChen and Langra both as a module, which is hosted over the PyPi. So using the pip command and UV command, we can simply configure it on any server, okay? I will show you in the local, and that the same thing you can replicate to any server, got it?
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Okay, here, server means, can you please elaborate?
Sunny Savita: Server means any system, right? Let's say I'm doing it in my local. Like, tomorrow you wanted to do over the cloud, right? You configure any Linux machine, any other machine over any cloud. You can configure it over there, that's it.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: All of it.
Sunny Savita: to run inside the Docker image, you can do it over there as well, anywhere as well, right?
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Alright, yeah, yeah, now that makes sense. So, are we going to cover this Docker as well, or how it is going to…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, in the projects part, I will… I can show you how you can convert your project as a Docker engine, and how to run that inside the Docker engine, okay? And then, same, we can host it over the Kubernet-based engine, or anywhere, right?
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, that is what. And here, what is this LLM Ops, or ML Ops? So, why it is, do we really need to avail that knowledge as well, being a developer?
Sunny Savita: MLM Ops, ML, MLOps, just a fancy name, nothing else. Everything comes under the DevOps, okay? I'm working since, like, 3 to 5 years, okay, in the same space. I haven't seen any specific designation, like LMLOps, LLM Ops.
Sunny Savita: I've seen only one designation, that is a DevOps, okay? Now, what is the main role of that person to deploy the application? Whether it's an LLM-based application or ML-based application? Yes.
Sunny Savita: the DevOps role, the DevOps role.
Sunny Savita: could be extended to the LLM Ops person. If that person is having a mastery, how to configure infrastructure and all everything with respect to the LLM, if we are going to train the LLM, right? Or if LLM is required, any different infrastructure with respect to any AI-related services, how to configure that, right? So the parent role is a DevOps. If that person is having a mastery with respect to the LLM application hosting, so that person is called the LLM Ops engineer.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, that's so.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, so is it for… predominantly for CICD? That's what we…
Sunny Savita: Got it, got it.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Yeah, that is what I thought as well. Anyway, yeah. Thank you so much, Sunny. Yeah, thank you.
VeeraSekhar Ponakala: Done.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you, sir, bye. Take care. Good night, guys.